From the Marquette Merenry Fxtra, Feb. 20th
MURDER AND LYNCH LAW.
The Land Claim difficulties, between Mess.
rs. Furman and Cartwright which less than a
year ago terminated in the murder of the for.
mer, had hardly passed from notice among the
Chroniele Tragedies of the day, ere we are again
called upon to announce another similar
one in that neighborhood, rendered more
shocking in that three men have been murder.
ed in cold blood- two men shot and one hung
-strung up in regular California style, till
dead. The facts of the Cartwright and Fer-
man affray have gone to the country; the latter
was shot, pierced with two balls, from the ef
et of which he survived but a short time-
Cartwright was for the act lodged
in jail to await his trial; at the last term of
the Washara Circuit Court the trial of the
caus was continued to the coming May Term
and the prisoner remained in jail. Ever since
the murder of Ferman the greatest indigna-
tion has prevailed in that neighborhood-
gainst Bartwright. Last week he was bailed
out, and against earnest remonstrarces, retur
ed home, with the avowed determination it is
said, to avenge himself in the death of others.
When it was ascertained that he was in their
midst, the inhabitants to the number of one
hundred repaired to his residence intent upon
lynching him. He had taken refuge in the
chamber, and repelling their advances shot
his retreat and killed two of the party- James
Langdon, who loaves a wife and a child, and a
Mr. Troop, both of middle age; and then be
ing sensible that further resistance was useless
surrendered himself into the hands of an offi-
eer with the assurance of protection; thence he
was removed to a Justices office for examina-
tion.
By this body of men he was forcibly taken
from the officers tied hand and foot, and but a
short distance from the place witere he was
seized suspended by th neck until dead.
He was hanged last Sunday about 5 o'clock in
the afternoon, and the body was allowed to re
main until 10, when the friends were permit.
ted to remove it. Mr. C. was a man about 60
years of age and leaves a wife and large fami
ly.
Thus within one year have four lives been
sacrificed, all for the paltry item of a 40 acre
claim. May we not hope that it is the last af-
fray of the kind. Oicis- in the county of
Woushasa, will long bo remembered as
" Bloody Ground." the
