LYNCH LAW IN CALIFORNIA
Five Men Hanged by the Mob.
A correspondent of the San Francisco Democratic
Iress give a description of the lynching
of five men at Los Angelas, by a mob. He
says:
When the prisoners had all been brought
out, the Committee started with its victims
to the place of execution, in front of the
jail, on the street. Here the crowd packed
densely around, the Committee ranged
itself in front of the galloows( which was a
beam running under the porch, of a house
fronting the street), and the first victim, Ell
Chase, ascended the platform, which was a
board over the a cart was
wheeled under the beam, the rope adjusted,
and the poor fellow, begging piteously for his
life, stepped on the plank. He had a few
words to say, and privilege was accorded him
to speak. The following, in broken sentences,
was the substance of his remarks:" Gentle
men, I hope to meet you all in a better world.
You ought to give us a trial. Is there no
mercy? I ask for meroy. May God forgive
me all my sins. Please tell me why I am to
hung. If you would give me a trial, I
be would die content.
When the executioner went to bind him,
be asked not to be bandaged; but he was.
With the words," Forgive me, God," trembling
on his lips, the cart was drawn from
under him, and he was swinging in the air,
the next victim was a
faintly struggling.
Mexican, named Jose Antonio Yuarra. He
ascended the platform very steadily, spoke a
few words in Spanish, the cart was withdrawn
, and he too was swinging in the con
Tulsions of death. Another Mexican came
next, Juan Olivas, who died very hard,
struggling long after the cart was drawn
away.
Boston G. Damewood, a notorious character
,' said to be a very bad man, was next put
upon the dreadful plank. He asked the privilege
of speaking, and it was granted. He
had been very defiant during the first of the
proceedings, and when the committee first
went into the jail yard he came to the jail win
dow and defled them to do their worst. When ,.
however, he had been brought out of the
jail, his courage somewhat weakened, and he
spoke very mildly to the crowd, asking that
he might have a trial. He protested his innocence
of any crime to the very last. Hero
is substance of his remarks on the
scaffold the:
" I came to this county one year ago; and
have never committed murder in this county.
I came to the State from Shawneetown, Illi
nols, where I was born. I was born of good
parents; I have a child in Gilroy, in this
State, which I wish some friend to take care
of. He supposed they expected à confession
him. He said," So help me God Al
from mighty, I never murdered any one in this
