jast The Dark Side of Life.
E
Two YOUNG GIRLS RUINED AT EAS
ALBANY A MOTHER AND A BROTHER TAKE
THE
LAW IN THEIR OWN HANDS LYNCH LAW THREATENED
THE CROWD TAKE THE COURT HUSE BY
STORM- Much excitement was created at East
Albany on the afternoon of the 10th, by the
shooting of a person in the police or art room. It
appears that on the 7th inst., two girls, named
Ann and Bridget Burns, went to the woods, a
short distance from their horne, to pick berries.
While thus engaged they were seized by four
men, who repeatedly violated their persons.
Bridget, who is but fifteen years old, cannot live,
it is said. Soon after the crime
was publicly
krown, Lewis Major, aged 46 years, and his son
were arrested and recognized by the girls as two
of their assailar cs. This afternoon they were
taken before the police magistrate for a preliminary
examination, but these proceedings had
ecarcely pened when a brother of the girls shot
the elde et Major twice, in the arm and leg. The
moth
r of the girls followed up the attack by
string Major a heavy blow with a hatchet upon
the head. Young Burns and his mother were ar
rested, and Major was carried to his hous
where a threatening mob was only deterred
from resorting to lynch law by the presence of a
strong police force. Major was formerly an engineer
on the Hudson River Railroad, but had
been discharged for misconduct. His son is said
to be a notorious bounty jumper. Young Burns
tried to stab him, but was prevented by a police.
man. The Albany Argus, of the 11th instant,
further says: Greenbush was the scene of great
excitement yesterday. We have given before an
account of the rape of two girls in that neighbor
hood by four ruffians. The girls were out in the
field picking berries last Friday afternoon, when
they were cruelly beaten and outraged by four
villiane, two of whom- a father and son have
been arrested. They were arraigned yesterday
afternoon before Judge Butler for trial. The excitement
in the community was very great, and
seemed to increase as the trial progressed.
Threats of lynching the prisoners were freely
made by the indignant populace, and the feeling
against them appeared to increase every mo
ment. While the examination was in progress,
the prisoners, Major and his son, sitting beside
each other, near the Justice, Patrick Burns, a
brother of the girls, appeared at the door. He
was armed with a revolver and knife, and had
I come with the determination of taking summary
vengeance upon the destroyers of his two sisters.
He opened the door a few inches, and, taking
aim, fired at the old man, the ball taking effect
in the fleshy part of the forearm, about three
inches from the elbow, coming out at the wrist.
Major jumped up, and cried out:" I am shot!
catch that man pointing toward young Burns.
The excitement was now intense. The crowd
rushed in, while Burns was more fierce than ever
to finish the work he had determined to accomplish
. To add to the frenzied crowd, the moth.
er of the girls now made her appearance, as an
accomplice of her son in the work of vengeance.
The two then rushed toward the prisoners: the
son with a revolver and knife; the mother with
a hatchet, which she had until now concealed
about her person. She aimed a blow at the
head of the elder Major, already suffering from
his wounded arm, cutting him badly. It might
have proved fatal, but for the interposition of ex
Constable John Scanlon, who interposed in time
to break its force. Determined to complete the
work now begun, young Burns fired anotaer
shot at the same man, taking aim between the
officers who were standing near him, the ball
this time passing through Major's thigh. The
crowd had now largely increased, all deeply sympathizing
with the mother and son. A rush was
made for the prisoners, with the intention of
lynching them on the spot. The cry for vengeance
from the frenzied mother and infuriated
brother was taken up, and it was with the utmost
difficulty that the officers removed the prisoners
to a place of safety. In the confusion young
Burns got at the younger Major, and some say
made an attempt to stab him. John Scanlon
caught Burns, and accused him of having the
knife, which he denied, but it was afterward
taken from his pocket. Seeing that the force
there was insufficient to guard the lives of the
prisoners, word was sent to Captain Hagadorn,
who immediately proceeded to the scene with
three officers, and speedily restored order. The
younger prisoner had fled for safety, and now
sent to the police to say where they could find
him. He was arrested, as also Mrs. Burns, the
mother of the unfortunate girls, and her son and
the two Majors, were taken to Troy at 7 o'clock.
The mother of the girls was in so crazed a state
that it was deemed necessary to handcuff her,
and even then she had to be placed in a cart and
held by three men, Patrick Burns, the brother
of the girls, was accompanied to the depot by
another sister, who seemed fairly heartsick; and
her weary lamentations, as she trudged bare
headed over the dusty road, were mournful, in
deed, and scarcely one saw her but pitied her.
Her sisters had been beaten and outraged by the
ruffians, and were suffering in their lonely home;
her mother and brother, who had madly attempt
ed to wreak vengeance upon the destroyers of
their happiness, were handcuffed and borne off
to jail in company with the hated villains. The
unwise attempt to use unlawful means to secure
satisfaction, though urged forward by the unreasoning
crowd to the work, had but added to the
calamity under which the family were anffering.
The mother and brother, who sought to vindicate
by force the good name of daughters and
sisters, were borne to the same prison with the
wretches who had deliberately plotted and executed
a hellish crime. While the attempt at
summary vengeance cannot be justified in the
eye of the law, yet the sympathy of the public
will be with the misguided parent and brother,
who have thus manifested their deep sense of
the enormity of the crime, and the injury inflict
ed upon the good name of their family. The
idea that a father and son should in company be
the perpetrators of such a horrid deed, is almost
beyond belief. It seems impossible human
nature could become so debased- that the two
together could deliberately execute, upon two in
nccent girls, a crime so shocking to every sense
of humanity. We learn that the elder Major was
formerly an engineer on the Hudson River rail
road. He was discharged from the road about a
year ago, for abandoning his train below Pough
keepsie, and leaving the fireman to run it
through to New York. He has a bad reputation
for morals, having been caught in bed, not long
since, with another man's wife, in Poughkeepsie,
by the husband of the woman. The son is known
as a bounty- jumper, and a fellow of low habita
and base associations. They deny the crime of
which they are charged; but the circumstances
are all against them, and the entire community
believe them guilty. Nothing can be said against
the character of the girls they so cruelly
raged. out
