MOB RULE.
Particulars of the Recent Attack on the
Evansville( Ind.) Jall and the Kriling of
the Murderer Redman- One of the Lynch
ers Killed and Several Others Arrested
Redman's Crime.
EVANSVILLE, Ind., October 11.
At ten minutes past two this morning about
one hundred men from Posey County on
horseback quietly surrounded our county jail,
situated in the center of the city, awoke the
Sheriff, and demanded of him the keys of the
jail. They then went to Redman's cell, took
him and put him in a buggy, and drove off
with him.
The first intelligence received by the officers
was at ten minutes two o'clock, when the
night turnkey, Hatmacher, received a tele
phone message from Ullmer's brewery that a
masked mob had passed up the street on
borseback. Hatmacher immediately notifled
Newitt, who hastened to the jail. Hatmacher,
after notifying Newitt, went to the sheerthable
residence alarm.
and Deputies Mauntel and Martin and Tom
Kerth Jr., were on the alert, prepared to de
fed the jail and the prisoner. Newitt soon
arrived, and went into the Clerk's office to telephone
for assistance. He heard the clatter
of the horses' hoofs coming up the bowl
dered streets, and hurried back into the jail.
Sheriff Kerth was at the front door of the
court- house when the mob arrived.
The mob dismounted, picketed their ani
mals, left a guard to cover their retreat, and
captured all the citizens who happened to be
attracted to the scene, while a portion of the
mob made a dive for the jail. Kerth fired at
them, but they did not falter. They took him
prisoner and were into the jail- yard in a jiffy.ited
Two blows were sufficient to break in the out
side wooden door, and the mob was in the jail
ball. Newitt, Martin and Tom Kerth, Jr.,
opened up a brisk fire, which was responded
to by the mob, who poured a fusilade through
the door. Chisels and sledge- hammers were
soon brought, and willing hands went to work,
and in a twinkling the jail door was open.
Newitt ran back to Redman's cell and said to
him:" I have done all I could for you; they
will get you;" and he replied, with an oath,
that if they would give him a revolver he
would kill some of them.
When the jail door was opened the mob
rushed through the corridor to Redman's cell,
and in a minute it was opened and Redman
in their hands. They tied his hands with a
strong rope and led him out. The officers all
this time were trying to escape from jail and
to get assistance so as to capture the mob, or
some of them. Newitt managed to get into
the Sheriff's residence and run up stairs to the
front window, which he opened and blew his
whistle. Then the mob fol ved him and threw
him down stairs. When he got up the mob
were bringing Redman out of the front door.
They were ordered to balt, when their leader
replied:" We are from Posey County, and
came after Redman, and we are going to have
him."
An alarm of fire having been given out in
the city, the chemical engine came rapidly up
the street, and striking the buggy into which
the mob had placed Redman, overturned it.
This threw the mob into some disorder, when
one of the leaders said:" Put him on horse
back." This order was countermanded, and
orders were given to kill him on the spot.
One of the band seized a sledge- hammer and
dealt Redman a powerful blow on the head,
felling him to the ground.
At this point Chief- of- Police Pritchell ar.
rived on the scene. One of the mob ran up to
him and said:" Go away from here, Pritch
ell; we don't want to kill you," at the same
time snapping a revolver in his face, but his
hand was knocked up in the air before the
weapon was discharged.
By this time several officers were on the
ground, who, without the orders of their superiors
, opened fire on the rapidly- retreating
mob. The mob fred as they retreated. They
were well armed. A regular pitched battle
was fought on Third street. Bulletts whistled
in every direction. Chief Pritchell and Detective
Newitt, who led the fight against them,
made an effort to capture some of them, but
the firing was so hot they were compelled to
lie flat on the ground to escape death.
Redman was killed where he was stricken
down with the sledge- hammer. Over two dozen
balls entered his body.
It was at this place that David Murphy, a
brother- in- law of the murdered woman, met
his death. The mob was so intent on killing
Redman that they fired helter- skelter through
their own ranks. Murphy was astride a gray
horse, which started down Third street with
the remainder of the mob. When they left, a
half square from the scene, Murphy reeled
and fell. Pritchell and Newitt hurried to his
assistance. He was carried into the court
house, and medical aid was summoned.
The body of Redman was conveyed to the
court- house, but life was extinct. Murphy
asked for a drink of water, and said he resided
in Mt. Vernon. In twenty minutes afterwards
he was a corpse.
The mob, on leaving the scene, separated,
and done to avoid the officers
everything was.
In a short time after the occurrence, a
young man, a stranger, approached the place
where the bodies of Murphy and Redman
were lying. Chief Pritchell arrested him, and
he gave his name as Quincy A. Gill, and said
he resided in Mt. Vernon. He was locked up.
Chief Pritchell also arrested a large, heavyset
man, with black whiskers, but he was
erward released. It was ascertained later in
the day that this person was the leader. The
description given answers for the leader of
the mob of Saturday last at Mt. Vernon.
Dave McFadden, a brother of the murdered
woman, was shortly afterward arrested by
Detective Merritt in Young's saloon. Newitt
recognized him as the person who pointed a
revolver at him in the jail and said:" We are
from Posey County; are after and going to
have Redman." He was locked up.
The fourth arrest was made by Officers Zopp
and Stetzer, at the corner of Fourth and Main
streets. The officers saw a man coming up
street on horseback, and prepared to arrest
him. He fired at the officers, but fortunately
missed them. He was taken into custody. He
knocked one of them down, and gave the oth
er a severe tussle, but was landed in the sta
tion- house.
All the prisoners captured by the police
were heavily armed. They had two revolvers
each.
REDMAN'S CRIME.
On the night of the 6th inst. the neighbors of
Hume Redman, whose home was about three
miles northwest of Mount Vernon, heard loud
cries of" Mercy!"" For God's sake, don't kill
me!" and at the same time sounds of blows
being struck, and shortly after a pistol was
fired off. Several of the neighbors went over
to the house and found Redman's wife lying
upon the floor about two feet from the door in
& dying condition, weltering in her blood.
Medical aid was summoned, but by the time
the doctor arrived the woman was dead. The
Coroner was notified, and
upon examination
the woman was found to
have been terribly beaten body
,
her
being covered with bruises from kicks and
blows. The pistol ball entered her head
just behind the left ear It is supposed that
.
while she was being beaten by the brute she
managed to get away from him and started for
the door, when he shot her down. She was
about nineteen years of age. Redman was
arrested and placed in the Mount Vernon Jail.
A mob was organized to hang him, and on
of this the officials determined
to take Redman to Evansville. When
it was learned that he had been taken from
the Mount Vernon Jail to be sent off, a mob
started for the depot after him, but the train
pulled out just before they reached there.
Redman was released from the Joliet( Ill.)
Penitentiary about a year ago, having served
out a sentence of years for shooting a
man. eight
