" MAY BE A LYNCHING.
" A Fight Near Wilkesbarre, During Which
There Was Wild Firing.
" Wilkesbarre, Pa., March 22.- The series
of murders and murderous assaults that
have disgraced this country during the past
week reached a climax tonight at Midvale,
a village three miles from this city. Mike
Bochrock, a Hungarian, became involved in
a quarrel with John Shandow, a neighbor.
Revelvers were drawn, and a bloody fight
ensued, in which Shandow shot Brochrock
under the left nipple and fatally wounded
him. After the shooting Shandow fled, fir
ing right and left at the crowd which had
collected.
" The excitement in Midvale is intense at
this writing( midnight) and the jail is close
ly guarded against a threatened attack. The
many crimes committed by the Hungarian
and Slavonic element in this vicinity have
caused the greatest indignation, and threats
are openly made that, if the criminals are
not promptly punished there will be a repetition
of the Stroudsburg lynching in this
county.'
" Not to confine ourselves to Pennsylvania
I give you a dispatch from your own state,
sent out the same day as the one last given
from Pennsylvania:
New York, March 15.- Readers of news
papers cannot fail to notice the increasing
number of murders, assaults, and robberies
committed by negroes in New York, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania. It is bad enough
in this city, but it is worse in Philadelphia.
that city. during the pres
ent week negroes violently assaulted and
robbed six ladies and girls on prominent
business streets. It is believed that the
tenderness of our courts in dealing with
black criminals has encouraged them until
terror to the white in
they are now
habitants in many localities. The mis
placed sympathy of some judges and juries
for these people is producing its results
in the shape of a harvest of crime. It
would be to the interest of both races to
adopt a different policy.'
" Really, it would seem that matters are
growing serious in your section, and you
may have to devote some of your money.
to taking care of the negroes at the north.
Possibly, this is enough on the condition
at least for the north.,
