AN INFAMOUS ACCUSATION
Senator Bailey's Charge that Roosevelt
Advocates Lynch Law.
Senator Bailey, of Texas, in a speech
made in Brooklyn, August 25, and re
ported in the class of journalism known
as" yellow" and disreputable, declared
that the President had been an advocate
of lynch law. The Senator goes further
and becomes more definite. He refers
to the shooting and lynching of sixty
horse thieves in Montana and then nakes
a blunt accusation against the man who
will be.again President of the United
States.
" Here is a man." said the speaker,
" who advocates iynch law as a penalty
for stealing, something unheard of in my
part of the country. Lynch law is applied
there sometimes, but only for one
crime, an unspeakable erime."
Here is a man, Senator from Texas.
baldly
the
who and reckless', makes
statement from the platform that the
President of the United States advocates
lynching for certain crimes. The
thing is infamous, but so shallow and
so false upon its face that it cannot
affect the thought or action of any American
citizen.
Senator Bailey has be
come conspicuous in the political affairs,
not merely of the largest State in the
Union, but in the conduct of affairs by
the Senate of the United States. He
has the gift of oratory, he has a certain
forcefulness, but it is most unior-
tunate that in the make- up of his mental
composition he does not recognize the
fact that orators should never tell baid
lies, even in the utmost heat of a political
campaign.
The thing is so absurd, so ntterly out
of the question that one cannot under
stand why this Texas Senator was 8)
lacking in tact, sense and judgment, as
to intimate that Mr. Roosevelt could
compromise with lynching under any circumstances
.
The attitude of the President has always
been to demand the utmost obsery-
ance of all enacted laws. He has shown
it at all times, throughout his whole
career, risking at one time, his political
future, by enforcing in the State of
New York the laws, which he may not
have himself countenanced, but
where and everywhere he has shown any- him
