A JUDGE WITH A HISTORY
Judge Pelham Prevented Lynching of
a Negro.
SIXTEEN- HOUR LAW
President THE Not Exactly
President Not Exactly Satisfied With
House Measure as It Stands and
Wants Some Changes.
President Roosevelt has a chance to recognize
woman's rights by appointing one
of that sex as federal judge in Alabama, a
lively fight over which is on in that state.
Dr. Emma Reba Bailey a woman clerk in
the general land office in, this city, likewise
an Alabamian, was at the White House
today, not to promote her own candidacy
for the judgeship, although admitting that
she is qualified, but to deny the idea that
there are not republican lawyers enough
in Alabama from which the President can
She did not see the
get a competent man.
President.
" Well, my name has not been put before
the President for this judgeship," said Dr.
Bailey," and I don't suppose it will be, but
I believe I could fill the position so far as
legal requirements are concerned. have
taken about all the degrees in law that I are
to be had in Washington. I took the degrees
of LL.B. and LL.M. at the Washington
College of Law and LL.M. and
D.C.L. at the George Washington University
. I have certificates from the courts of
the District to practice here. Furthermore,
citizen of Alabama. But I didn't
I am a
come up to see the President to talk in my
own behalf, but to say that there are plenty
of good republicans in Alabama qualified.
mention my own son,
W. Mosely Bafley of Birmingham, vice
chairman of the republican state commit
tee. Yes, I am a republican, always have
been and expect continue so, although
it has not profited to me anything during re
publican administrations. I want to see a
republican named in Alabama."
A story was recently printed in New York
that Dr. Bafley had been denied admission
to the Thaw trial a few days ago." I wish
you would say for me that this is not so,"
said Dr. Bailey to a Star reporter." I went
to the court house one day and asked about
what steps I should take to be permitted
inside. I was informed what I should do
and told to call the next day. I was ill,
, and did not go back. So I was
not however refused admission."
