LYNCHING AS A HABIT
The records of lynchings in the United States last
year, as compiled by the Tuskegee Institute, is not a
thing to be proud of. In 1918, sixty- two persons were
assassinated in this way, fifty- eight of them being
Negroes and five of them women. Of the total, six
teen were killed because they were accused of crimes
against women. Fourteen were accused of complicity
in murder, seven of murder, and six of using
threats to murder. The total was an increase of
twenty- four over 1917, and all but three of the out
rages were perpetrated in southern states.
These figures give every American something to
think about. In the beginning, lynching was theoretically
resorted to in the south as a retaliation for
one offense against society. But the Tuskegee report
shows that last year only about a quarter of those
killed were even accused of that crime. This fact,
the increase in the total number of assassinations, the
numbering of five women among the dead, go to
gether to indicate that in the districts where nearly
all the killings occurred. lynch law is bearing its
natural fruit. What was once excused as an extra
ordinary proceeding to prevent the commission of a
peculiarly heinous offense has become a convenient
medium for the gratification of savage revengefulness
and barbarous impulse. It has grown to be one of
the diversions of the population and obviously is not
resorted to in the great majority of cases because
there is any feeling that the law will lag or inflict in
adequate penalties, but because the populace prefers
to take the law into its own hands.
The whole nation is concerned in this condition be
cause the honor and reputation of the whole nation
are at stake. As long as the lynching bee persists as
a recognized institution of a large portion of the
United States there is all too much point in the sneers
of the Teutons and Bolshevists when in response to
our protests against their inhumanities, they tell
to look at home." Detroit Free Press. us
