Four Negro Victims Of Ruling Class
$
The lynching of four Negro workers by a reactionary white mob
in one of the southern states. Note the grins on the faces of the
cowardly murderers as they observe the culmination of their work
of instilling the elementary principles of capitalist democracy into
the Negro.( Photo by courtesy of" Labor Defender.")
U.S. COMMUNIST PARTY
DENOUNCES LYNCHINGS
The Workers( Communist) Party yesterday issued from its
national headquarters in New York vigorous denunciation of lynch
ing- calling attention to several recent cases of terrorist crimes
against Negroes, encouraged and left unpunished by the ruling class
and authorities, as well as the attitude of the capitalist political
parties giving tacit approval of lynching.
The Communist statement, which sets forth the measures which
it declares the workers must fight for in the struggle against lynch
ing, is as follows
Horrible Crime:.
Three Negroes have recently been
lynched in the most horrible and
brutal manner in the state of Mississippi
. A mob of over 5,000 battered
down the jail at Brookhaven
and dragged out two Negroes who
had been arrested because they had
resisted two white men who had attacked
them with following a
a gun
dispute. The mob tied these men to
automobile trucks, dragged them
around the town, and strung them
up to an electric light pole within
50 feet of the City Hall. While they
were yet conscious, these ill- fated
blacks were lowered to the ground
mutilated, and their remains again
strung up. Among the mob were
business men, prominent city officials
, physicians, lawyers, schoo:
heads, and church leaders. At Sum
mit, another Negro was given over
by officers to a lynching mob which
hanged its victim to a tree along the
road.
Only a few days before, at Hous
ton, Texas, a young Negro was
lvnched as the democrats assembled
for their national convention. Hhad
exchanged shots with a detective
who had been hounding him. He
was taken from the hospital, where
he lay wounded, by five men, one
a policeman in uniform, and hange 2
from a bridge. While the body of
this young Negro swung limo and
lifeless, the democrats, assembled at
Sam Houston Hall eight miles away
showed their complete accord with
the system of lynching and exploitation
by their failure to write any
plank in their platform or even to
utter a single word against this horrible
practice of lynching.
Lynching, a Part of Capitalist Class
Oppression.
These lynchings expose once re
the system of savage repression and
brutal by which the
masses of America are ground under
the iron heel of their ruthles
exploiters. These lynchings reveal
the true nature of the
" justice,"" law and order," which
the imperialist masters of America
impose upon their slaves, the mill
ions of black and white workers wh
have no right that their capitalist
exploiters are bound to respect
Lynching, mob violence, burning at
the stake, are common and established
practices of American capi,
talist Thousands of
Negroes, and thousands of white
workers, also, have been put to death
by this savage terror,
Lynching is openly defended in
congress, in the
courts, it is preached from the pul
pits. It is purposely maintained by
the wealthy rulers of America as a
necessary part of the vicious
sys
tem of oppression and exploitation
which keeps the Negro masses as
a slave class at the bottom of capi-
talist society, degraded and driven
in the most merciless fashion, to
produce, wealth for their inhuman
exploiters. It is the naked engine of
terror which upholds the whole vile
system of racial segregation and oppression
, of Jim- Crowism,
chisement, peonage and slavery disfran- the
system which not only crushes the
Negro masses but divides them alse
from the white workers and secures
the degradation and exploitation of
all the workers of America.
Lynching is a special part of the
" law and order" of capitalist society
is
It the counter-
. extra- legal
part of the legal machinery and
state power by which the workers.
black and white, are enslaved, re
pressed and exploited by the financial
masters of America. It is part
of the whole capitalist system of
exploitation, which utilizes the divisions
between black and white workers
ers to pay the Negro workers the
most miserable starvation wages
and to force him to work under the
most degrading conditions at
Continued on Page Two the
