Lynching and Brotherhood
Highlighting the observance of National Brother
hood Week in America this year was the first lynching of
1947, which occurred in South Carolina.
1917. year of promise- era of atomic power and
the United States record is blotted with an old fashioned
downright, out and out brutal lynching. No trial by jury,
no protection by the law, nothing to signify the justice,
fair play, and promise of peaceful living of man with man
that America is supposed to be the shining symbol of.
This is bloody proof to the new Congress that America
does need an anti- lynch law. All of the education and
brotherhood has become a mockery
preaching about
crushed beneath another corpse in the huge pile of those
who have met violent death by lynchings.
An anti- lynch law properly enforced by the Federal
Government would halt this blatant disregard of human
life. If the law enforcement officers in charge of a pris
oner knew that they would be held responsible for his life
and would suffer the consequences if they permitted him
to fall into the hands of a mob, much more care would be
exercised. If the lynchers knew that they would be prosecuted
by the Federal Government and possibly be
hanged if caught, they wouldn't be so quick to risk their
red necks.
The Federal government stepped in and took a hand
when bank robbers became too much of a menace and
local authorities couldn't cope with the problem. It also
stepped in and made kidnapping a federal crime after the
shocking Lindbergh ease.
What is necessary to make Congress realize that
lynching is just as vicious and dangerous to a country's
well being as kidnapping and bank robbing?
The Monroe, Georgia lynchers are still at- large. Not
one person has been punished for the cold- blooded massa
cre of 1 unarmed citizens.
At least some arrests have been made in the South
Carolina lynching. The eyes of the nation are on South
Carolina to see if these men are punished as they deserve
he
to
Let's start a crusade for Congress to pass an anti-
lynch law that will be so vigorous and so effective that in
the years come, the word lynch will be obsolete in the
American to language, and a deed of the past.
