MISSISSIPPI RACE RIOT
GOV. VARDAMAN RUSHING SOLDIERS
TO THE SCENE.
Killing of Conductor Harrison, Who
Was Waylaid by Negroes, Cause
of the Outbreak.
——
Columbus, Miss. -Reliable reports
received here tonight from Scooba
state that a race riot broke out at that
place today, which resulted in the death
of five negroes. These were shot down
by infuriated whites, and it is believed
that this is only a small part of the
actual bloodshed in that general community
since Sunday afternoon, when
Conductor Cooper had his fight with
negroes on the train near Wahalak.
It is said that the woods around Wa
halak are filled with the dead bodies of
negroes, who have been lynched and
shot down by the mob that was looking
for George Simpson, one of the negroes
that assaulted Conductor Cooper and
the one who killed Officer John O'Brien
Sunday afternoon. Information is difficult
to obtain, owing to the excited
condition of the public mind at Scooba,
but these additional facts have been
learned. The sheriff of Kemper county
has wired Gov. Vardaman that the condition
at Scooba is critical and asking
him to send troops there under rush
orders to help guard the men who kill
beed the negroes, these men being under
arrest, and it being feared that their
friends will attempt to rescue them.
The outbreak at Scooba came shortly
after the troops had all left Wahalak,
and was caused by the affair of Sunday
and the Crawford tragedy of last night.
Conductor Harrison had some trouble
with a negro brakeman last Friday in
which he stabbed the negro. The latter's
four brothers laid in wait for Harrison
, and when he stepped from
his special at Crawford last even
Howing they shot him, inflicting wounds,
from which he died Before he
fell to the ground he killed one of his
assailants, others made off.
The two affairs coming so closely to
gether inflamed the minds of the whites
until they were desperate. This led to
the outbreak, which is so serious that
Gov. Vardaman is sending troops as
fast as can to Scooba and Wahalak
to keep he down any further uprising.
