LYNCHERS GET NEGRO
Annapolis Mob Hangs and
Riddles Harry Davis.
CONFESSES BEFORE HE DIES
Determined Men Gather at St. John's
College, Batter the Jail, and Carry
Off Mrs. Reid's Assailant Within
Two Blocks of Governor's Home.
Threatened with Prosecutions,
Annapolis, Md., Dec. 21.- After having
assembled on the campus and in the halls
of historic and aristocratic old St. John's
College, at Annapolis, the State capital,
battered down the doors of the jail, within
two blocks of the executive mansion,
where Gov. Edwin Warfield slept, a mobold
of lynchers, early this morning, strung up
and riddled with lead. Harry Davis, a ne
gro, who confessed he dragged Mrs. John
Reid, aged sixty years, from her carriage
and attacked her on a public road.
The lynchers met on the campus of St.
John's College at midnight. Whether the
college students were in the crowd or not
is unknown; but a number of men wore
the college colors and the whole body
moved on Lenoir Hall to blacken their
faces. The noises awakened a number
of students, who came down into Lenoir
Hall to investigate, but not to protest.
Prof. B. H. Waddell, in his pajamas, demanded
to know what was going on.
Some one pushed an electric button and
all the lights went out. It is affirmed and
denied that the professor was ordered
back to his room at the point of a re
volver, and that he obeyed. Then the
minstrel- like troupe left, three of the
men bearing a rope across their shoulders.
Whipping Post for Battering Ram.
Two of the lynchers appeared at the
Annapolis jail at 2 a. m., one pretending
to be an officer with a drunken person.
The bluff did not work, and the deputies
refused to open the doors. Then the men
tried to batter down the jail doors with
the butt of an old whipping post, but
failed. Next they went to a near- by
blacksmith shop and got a sledge ham-
mer and a pick, and a hole large enough
to admit a man was knocked in a panel
of the door and six of the mob of sixty
were passed inside. They covered War
den George Taylor, Deputies Crouse and
Smallwood, and Watchman Marcellus
with revolvers, and demanded the keys to
the cells.
Smallwood said:" Boys, please, let the
law take its course."
The reply was:" Get up those stairs.
We that him
want scoundrel
, and will get
or kill every man in the jail."
They got the keys and carried Davis,
who was handcuffed, bodily out of the
building.
Silent March to Death,
As the lynchers marched across the city
not a policeman was visible nor a soul
in sight. Several heads stuck out of windows
, but quickly withdrew at the sight
of the revolvers. All was silent save the
shuffling of sixty men's feet along the
pavement. The governor's mansion was
but 500 yards distant.
On the outskirts of the city the mob
began beating and mauling the negro.
The fusillade of fifty shots was fired, and
a trail of blood marked the route to a big
chestnut tree on a hillside sloping down
to a creek. The noose was placed about
Davis' neck and swung over a limb ten
inches thick. Davis again confessed, and
as the mob grabbed the rope and jerked
the negro's head up to the limb, fifteen or
twenty more shots rang out. He was shot
through the heart and in the head,
At daylight his body was found stretch-
ed on the grass, full of wounds and
swollen with bruises.
Governor Warfield slept through it all.
A jury has met and officially decided that
Davis is dead, but does not recommend
action and mentions no names of participants
. Meanwhile President John Dill, of
St. John's College, is busy explaining that
no students took part in the lynching.
State Not Ready for Trial.
State's Attorney N. H. Green, who
conducted the inquest, says he will do
all in his power to identify and locate
the leaders or members of the mob,
and that those so located would be
prosecuted to the full extent of the
law.
Asked why steps had not been taken
to secure a speedy trial of the negro,
Mr. Green replied that he, as State's
attorney, had not felt that he could go
to trial with the case and evidence
in the condition it was. While the
negro had confessed his crime, this
confession was only to an officer of
the law, and after he was in custody.
Mrs. Reid's identification of the ac
eused man had been made not in the
negro's presence, but after Davis had
left the room. Her reason for
this
apparent doubt of the negro's identity.
she stated, was the fear that if she
positively recognized him her husband
would possibly have shot the man then
and there.
Sheriff Did Not Believe Talk.
Sheriff
Linth im's explanation
of
the apparent lack of preparedness for
an attack of the jail is that he did not
expect the talk of lynch law to amount
to anything. There had been considerable
talk of mob violence on Sunday
and Monday, and on these two nights
the sheriff made his home at the jail,
being locked in the same tier of cells
with his prisoner.
The next regular term of the Circuit
Court for the county is April, and State's
Attorney Green and Sheriff Linthicum
this morning seemed to expect no developments
which would warrant an earlier
session of either court or jury.
The victim of the mob's fury was a
well but not favorably known character
in Annapolis, where he had lived for some
years. He had served one or two terms
in the House of Correction for minor
offenses, and was recently accused by a
negro woman from Camp Parole of at-
tempting an assault upon her. The mem-
bers of his own race had little sympathy
for him, and since his capture many of
them have been heard to say that he
would only get his deserts if he were
hanged.
Governor Regrets Lynching.
Baltimore, Dec. 21 .-- Gov. Warfield, who
was at his Baltimore office to- day, in
speaking of the lynching of the negro
Davis at Annapolis last night, urged action
by the grand jury of Anne Arundel
County in discovering and punishing the
participants. The governor said:
" I had no intimation that any such act
was contemplated, so could not Co
operate in preventing it. I hope that the
grand jury of Anne Arundel County will
immediately take steps to discover and
punish the men who participated in this
lawless act.
" I greatly regret the occurrence, and
do not hesitate to deprecate and denounce
such lawless acts."
The governor said that he thought the
lynching was a complete surprise to every
one except those participating in it, as
there was no indication of excitement
Annapolis last night. in
