The Indianapolis Woman- Killing
Somewhat More
Than Usual Horrible.
Birth of the Butchered Wife's
Infant During Her
Struggles. Doath
Deportment of the Husband Now
Under Arrest for
Deed. the
Other Matters Now Making Indiana's
Capital Centre of Oriminal
* the Intelligence.
Tribune Fpecial Dispatch to The
HEVOLTING CRIME.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Sept. 23.- Further de.
velopments in the murder of the woman whose
body was found under a log three miles west
of this city on Sunday afternoon show it to
have been one of peculiar horror. The corp
was Identified by the teeth and other parts as
that of Mrs. Merrick, formerly Julia l'aul,
daughter of a well- to- do farmer llving near Waverly
, Morgan County, and wife of William
Merrick, a livery- stablo proprietor. At 3 o'clock
this morning Merrick was arrested for the
crimo while in bed over his stable.
Ilo WAS overcome when the officers
woke hltn, and, in Answer to questions
about wife, sakd' 110
had driven out with her on Friday or Saturday
evening of the week before, and had not seen
her since. Ilis story was that he had gone with
his wife to a colored neighborhood known as
" Bucktown," where she and a colored woman
went to the house of a midwife, Mrs. Merrick
being near confinement. He had neither seen
her since nor had he gone to see her, but the
colored woman had brought reports of her condition
twice to him, she staying at the
midwifo's to bo confined .. When told
that the body of his wife had been
found dead, he exclaimed," My God! 1
told her not to go with that nigger wench."
The stable boy remembered that Merrick had
gone out with his wife on Saturday evening,
Sept. 18(!), leaving word that he himself would
attend to putting the horse up when he re
turned, and that he did not get back until late
in the night. Several articles of his wife's
clothing were found in Merrick's bedroom, and
a shawl under his pillow. These have been
Identified as the clothing the wife wore that
night. Merrick was taken to the Coroner's in
quest, and, when shown the teeth, burst into
tears and said they looked like his wife's, but he
did not identify the remains, and to a reporter
afterwards at the jati said the body found was
too tall for his wife, and that he believed his
wife was in the city, and he could produce her.
He was taken to Bucktown," but failed to
point out the midwife, or to find the negro girl
in whose company he claims to have left his
wife. Testimony before the Coroner shows
that the infant was born either during the
death struggle or afterward, the umbilicus not
being sovered. In the opinion of experts. the
bodles had been dead about eight days.
The murdered woman was a rather fino
looking woman, 10 years of age, of
good education, having taught school and
music for a living. She became estranged
from her father's family years ago, but had al
ways borne a good reputation. Merrick Be
duced her, and married her somo weeks ago to
compromiso a bastardy sult. IIe abandoned
her, however, and she began divorce proceed;
ings. He got her to withdraw this suit and
lived with her until the fatal evening. Mrs.
Merrick told her counsel that Merrick hai
taken her out riding after their marriage to the
spot where the body found,
Very was
and lind Bald he ought to drown her
what sho deserved. Ho
she got
had been very brutal, and on more than one
occasion threatened to kill her. Little doubt is
er.tertained of the man's guilt, and intense feel
ing exista. In view of the frequency of murders
lately and the repeated commutations of sentences
by( or. Williams, there have been many
expressions in favor of Lynch law in this case.
Excited crowds have througed the streets all
day in front of the Coroner's office, and it would
not be surprising if some' demonstration would
be made, providing Alerrick's guilt is made
clear beyond peradventure. It is believed that
more than one person was concerned in the
murder, and the police are on the track of the
supposed accomplices of Merrick.
Special Dispatch to The Tribuna
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Bept. 23.- In the case of
William B. Wall against Judge Palmer, of
Boone, and the Clinton Circuit Court, the Supreme
Court to- day declinea to reverse Palm
er's order for disbartuout. Vall is the poto
rious attorney of Lebanon who some months
ago published that Palmer had been bribed to
givo Judgment in the case of Mrs. Nancy E.
Clem, charged with the Cold Springs tuurder,
by which she was released and is now at large.
Wall's practice for years has been tearfully bad,
and in a before Judge l'aliner and a jury
bo was disbarred trial.
Quatig, who murdered, the Spencer House
waiter- girl last week, is playing the crazy dodge,
and making feeble efforts to take bis own life.
In the present temper of the people he will get
the death penalty, and if there should be such
a thing as lynch law he will go with Merrick.
It is not improbable that a public meeting will
be held to consider the question of order and
safety, and denounce the lux administration
and execution to of the law.
