SOUTHERN HORRORS.
The Recent Tragedy at DeKalb,
Davenport County Mississippi
.,
A Massacre that Had Its Origin Largely,
if Not Entirely, Political
Differences in.
The Cold- Blooded Reply of Gov. Stone to
the Appeal of Mrs. Chisolm
Protection. for
Comments upon the Affair by a Gontle
man Lately Resident of That
a Stato.
AN EX- MISSISSIPPIAN'S COMMENTS
[ The writer of the following communication las
resided In Mississippt for years, but is not
now a citizen of that State several:]
To the Editor of The Tribune.
CHICAGO. May 11.- It is simply horrifying to be
hold the calm indifference and coldness with
which the people at the North receive news of the
recent massacre of white Republicans in Kemper
County, Mleeiselppl. Int what shall be said of
the utterly heartless responso made by( lov. Stono
-who was elected by the knives, pistols, and gune
of the White- League to the position he holds, and
not by vote or the people- to ths touching prayer
of Mrs. Chisolm, Beat to the Executive at Natchez,
that something may be done to preserve the life of
her wounded husband, and for their guardianship
until they can leave the country! It cannot be
characterized as less than damnably demoniacal.
JUDOR W. W. CHISOLM,
though a Republican, is one of the wealthy citizens
of Kemper Countr; has for years held the
position of Sheriff, with other prominent and responsible
offices; and is a Southern- born gentlo
man. While he is a fearless expounder of Itepub
licanism, he has held the respect and regard of a
majority of his fellow- citizens of both colors and
all grades of polities. Still he was never person
ally safe after his espousal of Republican principles
. lle informed the writer, seven years since,
that he had found it necessary to move about his
own county in secrecy; that is, if he were preparing
for a journey, he would nevor tell any person, out
aldo of his own honechold, where he was going,
for fear of nasassination. While he was always
armed, and always ready to meet a man day
light, he never expored himself unnecessarily to
crecullon from the ansassin's bullet, by sitting in
his house or office with the window- curtains up
and a light burning. If called out in the
night, he seldom carried u lantern. If he went
away on horseback after dark, as he was some
timas compelled to do, he would set out in an entirely
diferent direction from that in which he In
tended Rolng. So careful was he, that people
never know where he was going, or had been, until
he returned. In the daylight, no ordinary man
cared to faco W. W. Chisola. Ile was known to
be a fenricss man. Having an intelligent wife, an
elogumily- accomplishud daugnter, a cherished son,
and a home to be proud of, and being the owner of
10,000 acres of land in the county, he was other
wise well situated. Last year ho ran for Congress,
but was defeated by the same violence that defent.
ed every Republican candidate. In 1870 he was
about the only man in his part of the State who
had the to stump lile district for the Ilc
publican courage cause.
JOIN P. OITSEB,
who met his death in the same lynching tragedy,
was a friend and supporter of Chisulin. Ile and
Judge Chisulin wero the Damon and Pythins, the
David and Jonathan, of Kemper County; and,
where one was found in trouble, the other was nuro
to be. Uilmer was Senator from the Kempor district
for two torms, and faithfully held to his principles
. He was the only man fonnd, in the dark
day, bold enough to take the appointment of
Sheriff of Warren County, when Peter Crosby was
forcibly deposed by the White League. A young
man, of promise, he has met a violent and undo
perved fate. lle was of the dre- eating chaructor
himself, always carried his life in his hand, as
those men generally carry tnat valuable commonl
ty. A pistol at his back, and Chlaolm neat, all
mer did not fear a luglon of his focs. Ilut,
by a dastardly trick, both wore killed. They were
arreated on a trumped- up charge that they were
the lustigators of the recont shooting of a man
named Gilly, whom thoro had possibly exIsted
a foud, -taken with to Jall, and then cruelly
BHOT DOWN WHEN WHOLLY UNARMED.
Mrs. Uhlsolin, her son and daughter, were with
them, and they used Are- urine in defense of the
husband and father with otect, und wuro finally
thoutselves brought low, the son killed, and the
daughter wounded. It was at first reported that
Judge Chlaolm had been suddenly killed, as well
as Gilmer. It probably arose from the death of the
son. The young lady was badly wounded, and not
a doctor in the place would attend her, and ono
had to be secured from Meridian. Ilore's chiv
uiry 1lero's manlinow!
Now we see that Judge Chisolm is still alive,
nuffering horriblo palas, confined to his home, his
noble wifo his only nurse, and the place continnal
ly under watch of those who hunger for the inJured
man's life. Then, I say, what shall be
thought of the humanity of the man who can re
fuse protection to that bereaved and stricken fami
ly? Mrs. Chlaoim approaches Gov. Stono with a
plaintive supplication that something may be done
to protect hur dying husband durlug the few hours
ho may live. Stone replies that he cannot perinit
Capt. Shaughnessy, in the character of a privato
citizen, to raise a force of armad nien to take curo
of Judgo Chilsolm's family; and complacently
adds, that he will return as soon as pos
alble to the apital, nt, Jackson. dov. Stone fa at
Natchuz, engaged in somo Masonle celebration.
Ho can got to Jackson, by steamer to Vicksourg. In
twenty- four houre; and from Vicksburg to Jackson
by railroad in about four hours. Lot us ace how
quickly he will return to the Executive Odlce, and
how soon he will do something for Judgo Chisulm.
I prodict that
IIB WILL DO ABSOLUTELY NOTHING,
and that Judge Chlsolm and the remainder of his
family will have plenty of time in which to fall
victims to the White- Linery ore Gov. Stons will
have considered what he may do for them.
If Gov. Stone permita a few more murders of
this character, -murders by wholesalo of unarmed,
unresisting, and previously- surrendered men,
with Innocent wives and daughters of topublicous,
or of Democrats, -the universul vordict of the
people of the North will be, that he is unworthy of
the place he Alls, and should be classed among the
merellues Thugs who have so long governed
Stats. his
The Vicksburg Herald- the leader of the White
League in Mississippi- says the killing of Gilmer
and Chlaolm was almply the result of a nolghbor
hood- feud. The editor of the Herald, when he
this, know it was falso. Ile was aware of
wrote the fact that the deed was performed by
HIS CHOSEN BAND OF CUSTUROATS AND MUR
DERERS
He knows that this combination has never been
broken up. He knows that it controle bit, con
truls the politice and the lives, the labor and the
votes, of Mississippl. But no falsehood is too thin,
no device too despicable, no act too cowardly, for a
man in his position to say or act, to cover up the
deep and dawning evidences of the manifold crimes
of the White Leaguus. I have reason to doubt any.
thing and everything that Democratic editors may
print regarding any incident of the kind. Their
puwere of invention are great, and they are always
exercised when a nigger," or black
lican," or" carpet- bagger" le killed. Itapub
THE HANGING BY THE NECK
to limbs of trucs, of a few hundred of the fol
lowers of auch editors, and the persone who do
their bloody hehests, would have a beneficial of
feet in Misalonippl. It President Hayes can post
bly originate something, short of a universal
guillotino, which shall make some of the Southern
States a safe place of residence for the immigrant
of uvery political blas, he will do more than any.
body has ever yet, and be entitled to the
thanks of the whole done country. T ***.
