LYNCH- LAW HORRORS GROW.
GOV. SAYERS OF TEXAS SEEKS
A NEW REMEDY.
Aroused by Recent Cases Gov. Longine's
Fight Against Lynchings in Mississippi
a Failure Burning at the stake In
creasing Evolution of Lynch Law.
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 8.- Gov. Sayers of
Texas has determined to try to break up
lynch law in his State He proposes to
strike, not at the lynchers, but at the officers
, especially the Judges and Sheriffs
within whose jurisdiction lynchings occur.
He will accordingly make in his next
message to the Legislature strong recommendations
for passage of a law hold
District
ing accountable any Judge or
Attorney who through neglest, incota
petence or sympathy with the mob atlows
a prisoner to be taken from the officers
of the law and lynched
As a rule recent lynchings have occurred
because Judges and Sheriff's hesitate to
call for assistance until too late for fear
of offending the mob. All the lynchings
have been due to this delay and the Governor
proposes to put an end to it by maks
He does not inteni that Sherifts shall
do as was done recently in Waller county.
where dependence was placed on the vague
and indeluite promler of the citizens to
support the law," a promise which was not
U
At the last minute and when it was
hept.
any good for
impossible to accomplish
the prisoners were then in the hands of
the mob a rush telegraphie order was
sent to Austin for the militia
joot were aroused by the recent Hempstead
and Nacoglochs a fairs, While the pris
oner was legally hanged at Nacogdoehtos
the manner in which the execution occurred
discredit on the law.
only brougit
At Hemstead the lyneling was of the
most aggravated kind. The prisoners were
on trial when the mol, not liking the man
ner in whics the trial was prossing Invaded
the court room, carried the prisoners
of, and ivaesed one of the near
the court house
These last two lynchings and the fact
Ler of lynchings since he came Govero
have determine Goy ayers to tako steps
violence. The Governor
to stop toob
done all in his power, under the taw, to pr
teet prisoners.
militia and State Bangers
was advised that it was sy to do so.
In one case his orders were disobeyed and
the prisoner was practically handed over
officers.
to the mob by the
investigation made by the attorney.
An(
General's office shows that there is no
excuse for these lynchings on the ground
that murderers or other criminals escape
through the law. During the year, twenty
three prisoners have been tried for capita!
offences and condemned to death; and in
only two cases have there been commu
tations. twenty months there
In the last
have been eighty- five prisoners condemned
to death or life imprisonment in Texas.
Gov. Sayers will therefore join Gov.
Longino of Mississippi and other Southern
Governors in endeavoring to suppress
lynelings. It is a far more difficult task
than it may seem, and the anti- lynching
accomplished far lees
Governors have
than was expected, although they have
worked earnest in this cause.
No one could have been more earnest in
his efforts to break up lyneling in Missis-
He has dis-
sippi than Gov. Longino.
cussed it in every message to the Legislature
. He himself has gone to the county
seat when a lynching was expected. He
has ordered out troops whenever necessary
and has upheld and supported the Judges
in their opposition to mobs.
He did all in his power to secure action
by the Crand Juries against lynchers and
has worked in every possible way to stop
Yet he has at best saved
the disgrace.
four or five tives, while that horrible ed
dition to lynching burning at the stake
proviously unknown in Mississippi, has
finally invaded the State and was the fear
ure of the recent Corinth lynching.
Theas who oppose lynching call atten
tion to the fact that it is progressive, going
evolution of horrors. When
through an
the mob first began this work in Mississippi
the lynching was done by a small body of
men, well organized, masked and on horse
back, who rode to the jail in the middle of
the night and compelled the Sheriff to
surrender the prisoner. He was taken to
the nearest tree and hanged.
The next chang, a needlessly brutal
one, was after hanging the negro to have
every momb r of the mob fira a rifle
or pistol at the body This practice has
been kept up sine, with the result that the
bodies of lynched negroes to- day- nt lenst
fot been burned- sre
scare ly distinguisable as those of human
Later all masks and disguises were dis
corded and the mob performed its work
in the open light of day in the very streets
of the town, and generally in front of the
court house, with no attempt at concealment
or secrecy
burning at the
stake, when the lynching is made a spectacle
in which a large part of a robulation
Invitations are sent
joins.
given for those who wish
excursions are
to witness these executions.
Corinth the only question was whether
the At victim should be burned o. hanged.
The more conservative citizens pleaded
for a plain hanging" and were regarded
as milksops for so doing.
No one seemed to plead law and order
for the trial and legal execution of the
criminal. The mob even took possession
of the telegraph station, refused to allow
the Sheriff to telegraph to the Governor
for troops, and refused to allow any word
of the lynching to go out until the work
was completed. It armed itself to resist
any troops that might be sent to the scene
to maintain the law.
It has been found that when burn ing
at the stake is once introduced as an incident
to lynching, it is generally kept up.
The evil influence of the Corinth burning
was well shown in the very next lynching
in Mississippi, at Darling, on All Saints
Day, Nov. 1, when the negro victim was
burned at the stake.
It will be seen, therefore, that lynchings
are going through an evolution which makes
them worse. The increased boldness of
the lyn hers wes well shown in the Hemp
stead: air, where, for the first time, a pris
orer under trial was taken from the court
house and lynched.
Gov Sayers is probably well aware of
the fact that he is tackling a difficult prob
lem which may prove too much for the
Southera Governors. other
