obiad boh Sow esiin 608 tent adT
LYNCH LAW IN ILLINOIS.- About eighteen
months ago a man named Joseph Tibbetts was
arrested in this State, upon a requisition from
the Governor of Illinois, and removed to the
latter State tried for the murder of one
Thomas Page. The crime had been charged
upon him by his own brother, Alonzo Tibbetts:
but when the case came to trial the accuser re
fused to testify, on the ground that he should
criminate himself. The prisoner was discharg-
ed, and from that time both the brothers have
been regarded with much disfavor in the vicinity
where they live. All their attempts to
renew social relations with their neighbors
were futile, and the violent death of one of them
resulted from their persisting in doing so. On
the recent 4th of July a party was given and
Joe Tibbetts attended it. The people present
at once remonstrated at his presence, and he
00:
was ordered to leave. During the evening se
eral sets of harness were cut to pieces, and
other mischief done, and the people charged
that Tibbetts was the one that did it. A meet
was held shortly afterward and some two
hundred citizens resolved to hang Alonzo
Tibbetts, but the Sheriff got wind of the affair
and had him secured in prison. On the morn
going of the 27th ultimo hundreds of men assembled
in the town of Morris and threated to
carry out their design against Tibbetts. An
account of what resulted is given in the Morris
Herald as follows:
At 3 o'clock the crowd held a meeting, and
resolved to break into the jail and get Tibbetts.
They immediately repaired to the jail, broke
open the door with crowsbars, and took Tibetts
across the river bridge to bang him. The May
or, S. B.Thomas, Judge Keating, Judge Grant,
Mayor Webber, the late Mayor, E. B. Hanna,
and many other citizens, did what could be
done by them to prevent it, but were overpowered
and carried away by the mob bodily. The
Sheriff left the jail about noon without leaving
any guard, and went into the country to serve.
some papers. The crowd took Tibbetts in a
wagon across the river bridge, put a rope
around his neck, fastened it over 1 tree, and
gave him an opportunity to speak. He said:
' My horses were poisened by Thomas Page.
Had I desired to kill him I should have done
it then. I did not kill him. I can prove that
I was not near there that day. I know noth
ing about it. My wife knew nothing about it.
and I am innocent." Some one from the crowd
asked him if his Joe did not kill Page.
He answered:" Since then Joe has told me
that he meant to kill Page and did so." He
was asked why he did not testity on trial. He
answered:" Because he was my brother."
They tied his hands behind him; he knelt
down and prayed about three minutes. When
he rose up they asked him what he wanted
done with his body. He replied:" Give it to
my wife." He then said:" Gentlemen, I die
with a clear conscience. I am innocent."
Some one then called to the crowd:" Are you
satisfied to hang him?" The crowd shouted
" no," but those in the wagon drove suddenly
away, and left him dangling in the air. Efforts
were made to cut him down, but all such were
in vain, The mob kept all away until he was
dead. Great excitement prevailed. Some of
the most influential and prominent men in
the south part of the county are leaders in it.
It was difficult to get the exact language used
by Tibbetts, on account of the great excite
ment and confusion, but the foregoing is substantially
correct 204 40 POTEZA
. AIT
