missioner of the New York Tribune.
Account of the Slaughter by the Southern Com
E. V. BMALLEY'S ACCOUNT,
Currespondence New York Tribune.
DE KALU, Kemper Co., Miss., May 2.- I[ alf a
day spent in bearing the narratives of citizens of
both political parties who witnessed the doings of
the mub on Bhinday, and of the desperately wound.
ed Judge and his heroic daughter, who were among
the victime, enables me to construct an approxi.
mately correct account of the alfair. To give an
idea of the state of feeling out of which so phenom.
eual a crime grew, I must prolaco it by a reference
to the personal feuds and bitter political animos.
ities prevailing in the county. There le a negro
majority in Kemper, and after reconstruction It
was controlled by a small clique of native white
men, the leader of which was
JUDOR CHISOLM,
a man of considerable ability and of great personal
courage. He had been a Judge of Probate under
the Confederacy, and when civil government was
re- established ho obtained the othce of Sheriff.
In this position he virtually ruled the county for
seven years, until the political revolution of 1875.
The other offices were filled by the mun he told
the negroes to nominate. They were all natives
no carpet- baggers coming into the county. The
Republican local Administration was intensely un
popular. Taxes were as high one year an 333 on
the$ 1,000, and a debt was contracted of$ 27,000,
professedly for the building of school- houses,
which the Democrats say were not ballt,
for the support of schemes which
they allegu wozu no of account.
Over 100.000 acres of land were seized for taxne,
and are still held by the State, no purchasers hav.
been found. When Julge Chlaulu took office
ing bu was, according to the rupurt of his enemies, too
poor to get credit for a aaddle- horse, and when he
left it they say he was worth$ 50, 000.
Among the active Democrate of the county were
the numerous members of a family named Gully,
the chief of which
JOHN was W. OULLY.
There was I feeling between Chisolm and this
man, but no personal encounter ever grew out of
It. One of the warm partisans of the Judge,
named Benjamin Itash, formerly clerk of the
Chancery Contt. had quarreled with Gully years
ago about a business matter( they had been in
partnership). and in 1873 an impromptu duel took
place in the main street of DeKalb, in which
Samuel Qully, a brother of John W., WR4
killed, and Kuah was severely wounded. Abont
the same Ime J. P. allmer, another of Chisolm's
adherents, who kept a store at Scooba and was
State Senator, ehota Democrat named Dawson.
ill clerk red at the rame time, and between them
both they killed him. Although it was shown that
Dawson untered the stora with a pistol in his hand
for the avowed purpose of killing tilmer, a minb
of Democrats invaded the town one night, and,
failing to und Gilmer, took his goods out of his
etore and made a bonfire of them. Arrests were
maile, but there were no convictions. The same
year Benjamin Rush was waylald and shot and
severely wounded by some person Inrking a
church in De Kalb. behind
As a result of the campaign in 1875, Judze
Chlsol and his friends lost their nilices. In 1870
the Judge ran for Congress and was defeated.
campaign was The
BEATED A ONE,
and the Democrats banded together in well- dia
ciplined clubs, broke up some of the Republican
meetings by marching to them lu large bodies and
holding meetings of their own in the same places
to Intimidate the negroes. On onu occasion a
Democratic procession paraded in front of Chils
olm's house, and some men in it fred pistols in
the air, according to some accounts, and at the
house, according to others. After the election
Chisolm procured the indictment of thirty- two
prominent Democrats by the United States Grand
Jury at Jackson, under the intimidation clause of
the Enforcement act. This added fresh fuel to the
fire of hostile feeling long cherished against him
in the country. In December last an attempt was
made to assassinate John W. Gally. He was way
laid and shot by some unknown person. Suspicion
fell upon Rush. Shortly afterward Rush left the
State and went to Ituseellville. Ark. No one has
seen him in Kemper County ance.
Last Thursday evening, the 20th, as John W.
Gully was returning home hla plantation, a fow
miles north of De Kalb, to
I WAS ASSASSINATED
by some person in hiding by the roadside, who sent
n charge of buckshot through him and robbed him
of his boots and money. Intense excitement w34
created by the murder. It was believed that Rush
had returned and committed the crime, but, as
to trace of hlm could be found, the revengefut
feelings of the rolatives and friends of the murdered
man centered on the powerful personal and political
friends of Rush. A story flew about from moutit to
mouth that the( Jullys had some evlilence that
Chisolin and Glimer were accessories to the crime.
It cannot be uscertained. however, that there was
the allghtest ground for this report, and it probably
grew solely out of the susplclons of the Quilya.
John W. Gully was buried on Saturday, and about
230 meu attended the funeral. So much engaged
was this throng in planning the scheme of yon
geance which was executed next day that there
was dificulty in getting any body to l'up the grave.
On that day a warrant was sworn out for the ar
rest of Judge Chlaolin, Gilmer, C. Rosenbaum( n
friend of Gilmor), the Dekalb Postmaster, but
Ilving in Scoota, and two brothers named Hopper,
one a inorchant and the other a waloon- keepor In
eKalb. All these men were Republicans. There
seems to have been
A PLOT TO OCT THEM TOGETHER AND MURDER
THEM ALI ..
The Sherift arrested the two lloppers and Chisolm
and placed them all under guard in Chisolm's
honse, and dispatched a deputy Scooba for lill
mer and Rosenbaum, but they had heard of the
warrant and were not coming to town to give
themselves up.
About 10 o'clock that morning( Sunday) armed
men begun to rido Into DeKalb. Firat emall do
tachments came, and afterward a large body, num
bering about 100. Before noon over 200 men had
congregated. They were nober, esol, and do
termined. Tying their horses to the gallowe- liko
hitching- bars around the Court- llouse, they sur
rounded Judge Chisolm's house and insisted that
the Sheriff should take the prisoners to the jail.
This was done, and a guard of six mon, selected
by the Sherl, was placed over them. Then the
mob hung two of Chleolm's negro servants up to
trees with bridlo- rolns, and tried to make them
confess that they had heard something to implicate
the Judge in the murder; but the poor fellows
know nothing, and were dnally allowed to run
the woods. to
At 3 o'clock in the afternoon Grimer and Rosen
baum came into the village with the Deputy Shor
i, dismounted and started to walk down the main
street to the Jall. They had not gone a dozen rods
before a shot was fired at Gilmer from the crowd of
Armed men hanging about the store- dours. Ilo
ran down a nurrow passage to the rear of the
buildings, only to find himself penned in by an
other dotachment of mub. Kacape was lun
possible, and the defenseless the man was
KILLED LIKE A RAT IN A TRAP
Two balls were shot in his head after he lay
dead on the ground. When the firing began Koson
baum chung to an acquaintance in the crowd,
named Hull, and begged for protection. This man
intercoded for blu, and he was allowed to
unharmad. escapo
When Judeo Chlsolin went to Jall all the mem
bers of his family, -his wife, a daughter 18 years
old, a son of 10, and two younger buys, -knowing
that ble life was in danger, and hoping that their
prosence might soften the hearts of the mob, went
with him. After they were locked in, the daughter
Cornelia found that the guns of the six guards
wure not loaded, and that they had no ammunition.
Under protense of going to procure food for the
failly the courageous girl left the jail, passed
through the crowd of ungry men, and re
turned home, whoro who hastily secreted a
powder- flask, a bag of shot, and somo NOWA.
japers for wadding under her dress. Then taking
Komo brand and nicat she went back to the jail.
The mob. leaving the stores and saloon,
now began to press around the building and clamor
for Chisula's life. Among the guards thero. was
but onu Itepublican, a cool, courageous Scotch
man, namel Michollund, who was a personal friend
of Chisolm. This man stationed himself at the
door of the Jall, and told the mob that if they kill
ed the prisonura two of them should dig for every
Ilfo they took, While expostulating with the mob
and threatening them, he fell,,
BIOT BY FIVE PISTOL BALLS
Threo of the remaining guards now doverted their
post, and, leaving their guns and taking with them
the two Hoppers, they went out of the Jall. Thero
seoms to have been little personal animoalty against
the lloppers, and they mingled with the crowd and
got away unbarmed.
The furlous mob alled the lower hall of the jail,
and broko open a door at the foot of a stairway
leading to the floor above where the prisoners werd
coudned. At the top of the statra there was an.
other door with a grating in it. The lock was broken
off with axeN. Willa tho blows were falling upon
it, Cornelia Implorod the two romaining guards,
Overstreet and Wall, to dro through the grating
upon the mob pressing upon the stairs. but they
refused. She then carried the gun tuft by the
other guards to hor father. After the lock yielded,
the two guards tried to hold the door, and the
second son of the Judge ,, a boy of 18, In alding
thum, was shot in the wrist. The mob pushue hu
guards asido. and the mon in advance gained the
upper landing, tred, and
KILLED THE POOR WOUNDED BOY,
who was clinging to his father. First in the brutal
crowd came David Itoneer, a planter and practicing
physician. He was instantly killed by the Judge.
As soon as ho fell, the mob, cowardly as all mobs
are, rushed out of the building. There was a full
for a few minutos; then the crowd outalde began
to yell, firo the jail; burn them out!" After
wards they shouted, The Jall is un Arol" It
was a stratagem worthy only of savages, Judge
Chlsolm, bulieving that the wooden bullding was
already in flames, determined to fight ble way out
and to sull his life as doarly as ho could. lle came
down the stairs with his wife and three surviving
children. The dead bodies of Johnny Chitsolm
and of Dr. Rosser had previously been car
ried out by Overstreet and Wall, who left the jail
to get out of harm's way. At the foot of the
stairs the bunted family found the hall full of
armed men. One man stuck his gun through the
grating in the door, against the breast of the
Judge, but Cornelia thrust it aside. A volley of
shots was fred against the door. The Judge push
ed it open, and got into the hall. Mrs. Chisolm
drud both barrels of a shotgun and wounded one
of the assailuuts in the face. The murderous mob
closed in around their victimn. Ils daughter clung
to ble neck with ous band and with the other
thrust away the guns aimed at him. Her hand
was shattered by a ball dve shots atruck ono of
her legs. Judge Chisolm and fell
WOUNDED IN ELEVEN PLACES.
The mob, bellovlug, they had accomplished their
purpose, lett the Jall.
The wife and son of the Judge, aided by a clli
zen who, for a wonder, showed a spark of hu
nuanity, carried the wounded man to fite home, a
fow hundred yards across the commons. A body
of men stopped them on the way and were about
to dre at the Judge, when flae Cornolia, with the
remarkable courage and self- possession she showed
throughout the whole tragedy, assured them that
her father was dead, that he had died in her arms
in the jail, and persuaded them not to mutilate a
dead body. The bleeding and unconscious man
was then got within the shulter of his house. Tu
ward evening the murderers rode out of the town.
Judge Chlsolm is still alive, but bis recovery la
acarcely within the bounds of probability. I vis
ited him this evening: Ilu said: ** I want
to live for the dearest wife lu the world,
for tuy children, and fur MY country.
I am dying for my country." The surgeon
farbade him to talk moru. The brave young
girl, although suffering sovere pain from her abat
tored right band, is cheerful and hopeful. The
aurgeon says he never saw a woman with such a
Derve, and that she bore the severe pain of ex
tracting the shot from hor log and dressing her
band without a groan. She has a sweet intelligent
face, dark brown hair, a pair of large, rosolute
blue eyes. The Chlsolms and are peuple of a
REFINEMENT AND CULTUR
exceptional for this part of the country. There
aro books, pictures, and a plano in their protty
little coltage, and the dower garden that sur
rounds It would be the wonder and pride of any
Northern village. The front window of the room
where the Judgo lles is boarded up to guard agalust
an attempt to cuinplote the work of assassination.
and dve or six of tita kinamon, well urmed, keep
watch every night.
Gilmer is spoken of as an unpri cipled man -- a
gambler and something of a desparallu. McLellan
was an industrious, respectable citizen.
From the careful Inquiries mala by Gov. Stone,
it appears that the brothers, sons, ani nephewe of
the murdered Gully wure the ringluaders of the
mob. In my conversations with the county ollcers
and others of the principal citizens of the place, I
have been shocked to them all meio desiroda
of excusing or palliating tad the horrible crimen of the
mob than to exhibit sympathy for the victims.
From not a single man have I heart expressed an
Intention to aid in bringing the murders to Justice,
or even the hope that they will be arrested. A por
tion of the community.
THE PERPE ENTIRELY SYMPATHIZES WITH
1 TRATORS
of the bloody outrage, and those who do not are
too much terrorized to try to enforce the law.
Buch is the story of the Komper tragedy, in the
briefest form in which the facts can be clearly
etated. I wish I could say that politics had noth
ing to do with the torribio affair, but I cannot, In
face of the fact that the assallants were all Democrats
and the victims Itepublicans, and in view of
the bitter feeling against Chisolm and( ilmer that
had pervaded the county for years. Still it was by
no means a purely political outrage. The
fend between Chlsolm and his ndherents personal and the
Gally family had roots outside of party differences.
and the Gullys no doubt belleved that Chisolm and
Gilmer had instigated the assassination of the
kineman, who was chief of their class
. E. V. B.
