Daily Press Comment On
Lynchings
" White Supremacy Georgia" in Georgia
( From New York Times)
Two weeks ago a white man was, were too dangerous to live.
stabbed in Georgia. He is still alive Decent white people everywhere
in a hospital, but some of his feel a heartsick sense of shame over
fellow whites in the South_have this ugly event beside a lonely side
been brooding over his case. Twen- road northeast of Atlanta. Are we
ty of them decided the other eve- indeed the race that the gallused
ning that the white man's honor Talmadge so recently proclaimed
and the cause of justice needed" supreme" as he promised to take
bolstering. They did not bother to steps to" keep the Negro in his
mask their faces. They merely got place"? Those who preach hatred
their guns, lined up two Negroes and denial of the rights of man-
and their wives, and fired. in any State, North or South-
ask what is their re-
One of the four assassinated had might sponsibility when something like
just been released on bond on this happens, and sixty, bullets
charges of stabbing his employer. loosed at close range show the
Another had just returned safely" in American life
place
"
Negro his.
from five years of service as a The score for Georgia since 1882
soldier of the United States, some
now stands at 525 lynchings. She
of it in Africa and the Pacific He
. is second only to Mississippi in
had survived the hazards of war, execution without trial. Governor
defending his country against bar- Arnall leaves no doubt of his in-
barie enemies, but fell before the dignation over the murders in Wal-
bigoted hatred of neighbors led by ton County. He rightly says that
a" dignified" white man. The two" civilized people everywhere" will
women ruthlessly shot down had be watching to see what happens
committed no fault that appears in now. All of us, North and South,
the record, except that of being stand condemned before this out
present. One of them recognized a
member of the white mob, and rage and share with Georgia's
great majority of decent and law-
called him by name. This was people the humiliation of
enough; she and her companion this abiding disgrace.
