.
Interesting from California.
We had determined to make another appeal in behalf in
of California, but we are compelled to postpone it till to of
morrow Meantime we lay before our readers the fol
.
lowing very interesting but thrilling letter, for which
are indebted to Gen. Jesup, as we are preparing for ters
. we the press.
We understand that a letter is received from an
that
officer in Commodore Jones's squadron, of the 7th January
. The Ohio was then at Mazatlan. Reports had
, been received of the arrival at San Diego of the dragoons
and a company of artillery, under Colonel Washington.
of who had gone across from Camargo, and passed through of
, Monterey, Saltillo, Parras,& c.
ize
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA,
to
December 25, 1848.
of
MY DEAR SIR: Commodore Jones has but this moment informed
me that the Ohio will sail to- day for Mazatlan,
and I take the opportunity for forwarding a few public
letters. I also enclose two or three private letters, this
you please to have them sent to the post office in Wash
the
ington?
Since I last wrote to you, the affairs of this country have Clay
.
, been constantly getting worse. We have no govern
ment here, either civil or military, and the country is
of lawless the most been
ing outrages. Murders and robberies are of daily, and from
say of hourly occurrence. Not an
it occurs from the north, south, or the interior, but notifies the
of
community of new acts of villany which go unpunished. 121
Within six weeks more than twenty murders have oc
over
curred in a white population of less than 15,000 souls.
The people are now acting in self- defence; and four or
of five days since, three men were hung by Lynch law, sixty of
the
the distressing condition of California should be impress the
ed upon those at Washington who have the power to
apply a remedy. The people are now preparing to or train
• but
a
should Congress give us a territorial organization at
the present session, it will supersede the popular local
, organization now taking place, but which cannot go into
effect before the ensuing summer. The United States
revenue laws are now in force here and will yield
per the
,
an income of say$ 450,000 the ensuing year, and
. haps more, and four- fifths of this amount will be col with
lected at this port. Much dissatisfaction exists at the be
payment such a tax on the part of the inhabitants,
without either of a government or a representation. This the
without either a
feeling is gaining ground from day to day. of
.
.
I wrote you a very long semi- official letter some time
since,( September 18,) going at length into the history of rectly
I have received that ally
the gold mines. trust that you communication
, as it accompanied other official papers, all of old
which, I am informed, were correctly sent from Mazatlan
to Vera Cruz about six weeks since. I have only time ner
. now to inform you that everything stated in that letter in
has been more than realized up to this date. The gold
mines continue to be as rich as before, although the
rainy season has caused many to suspend their work. prove
There can be no doubt but that at least$ 4,000,000 of gold, -aye
at$ 16 per ounce troy, has been taken from the mines.
.
The most accurate estimates I am able to make show that a
$ 1,500,000 have been sent from the country, and$ 1,000, New
50 000 of it has gone from this port. One vessel took$ 400, is
000. Two- thirds of all that has been exported has gone
to foreign countries, and, consequently, to foreign mints.
I am, dear sir, in great haste, yours truly,
J. L. FOLSOM.
of left
General JESUP
Washington,, D. C.
