PRESS OF NATION CONDEMNS FRANK'S
EXECUTION
( Chicago Herald.)
The Herald has gathered the editorial expressions
of the press of the nation regarding the lynching of
- Leo M. Frank. The comment follows:
New York Times.- The State of Georgia should either
apprehend the murderers of Leo. M. Frank and punish
them according to its laws or its people should
honor them by election to the chief judicial and administrative
offices in their gift. Any half- way course
would be cowardly evasion. Either the lynchers of
Frank faithfully represent public opinion in Georgia or is
they do not represent it. If Georgia approves lynching,
then honors bestowed upon the lynchers would attest
at once to the shameless courage of the Georgia public
and its willingness to defy public opinion in all the
other States of the Union.
New York Globe.- There may be some people in
Georgia who are proud of their State today, but they
are not many. The rest of the nation regards the murder
of Frank not only as most dastardly, but as an insult
to the principles of civilization and.
New York Evening Post.- There is no law need to put
New York Evening Post.- There is no need to put
words to the rack in order to seek to express the full
horror and shame of the lynching of Leo Frank in
Georgia. Everything conspires to fix public attention
on this latest and culminating murder by the mob. The
crime was committed, as it were, in full sight of the
nation. The awful spectacle speaks for itself. We can
only turn away from it with a shudder to ask what it
all means and what can be done about it.
New York Evening Sun.- The lynching of Leo M.
Frank is the most shocking crime in the long record of
mob outrages. It is the climax of a story in which justice
and moderation have constantly been subordinated
to prejudice.
New York Mail- A government that does not rep
resent ia its acts the best moral sense of its commun
ity cannot lonk endure. What is going on in Georgia
is more than a tragedy of an invidual man. The trag-
edy of Leo Frank is the tragedy of the government
of Georgia.
Pittsburgh Dispatch.- Georgia is reaping what she
violence
sowed. For years she had tolerated mob
against one race. No State, no community, can thus
traffic with anarchy without paying the penalty. The
mob that is allowed to set its belief above the law in
one case will not hesitate to arrogate to itslef the
same power in another.
Atlanta Constitution.- The assault of the lowest
criminal upon the life, person or property of another
affects directly but two person, the assailant and his
victim, that act of the mob which lynched Leo Frank
has put a stain upon the escutcheon of the State which
more than 2,500,000 people are trying to preserve un
tarnished. Every man, woman and child in George
will feel the ultimate effect of that act of the law- de
tying mob which lynched not Leo Frank, who is only
a detail in the lawful story; but the State itself.
Marietta( Ga.) Journal.- We regard the hanging
of Leo Frank as the act of law- abiding citizens. Frank
was not scratched, nor a hair of his head harmed. He
was" hanged by the neck until dead" as the law had
declared was his just due. We have no apology to
make or regrets to express. The people demanded that
the verdict of the Court be carried out and saw to it
that it was.
Charleston( S. C.) News and Courier.- The last
chapter in the Frank case is its worst. The fact that
Frank could be lynched is, in all the circumstancse,
the most disgraceful episode if its kind in the history
of the South.
Frank could be lynched is, in all the circumstances,
of inherent savagery Georgia stands revealed before the
world in her naked, barbarian brutality. She is a shame
a disgrace to the other States of the Union, who are
powerless in the matter of humane justice to put
on her the corrective punishsment her crimes deserve up.
