THE PLOT REVEALED.
Lynching of Tennessee Negroes
at Last Unearthed.
SHERIFF'S SON GIVES IT AWAY.
He Tells the Grand Jury the Whole
Plan After Reing Threatened to Be
Sent to Jail- His Story Implicates
Those Already Arrested -- He Goes to
JaH In Default of Hall,
MEMPHIS, Sept. 11. The whole plot
of the lynching of six alleged negro incendiaries
near Millington, Tenn., on
the night of Aug. 31 has been laid bare,
and before many hours elapse every man
in the conspiracy will be in
fail implicated.
Robert McCarver, son of J. A. Mc
Carver sheriff of Shelby county is the
,,
man who exposed the conspirators. He
was called before the grand jury Saturday
and told the whole story. Young
McCarver at first refused to testify, be
ing afraid of the lynchers, but when
given the alternative of going to jail for
contempt of court or revealing the plot
he chose the latter. Young McCarver
in his testimony before the grand jury
said that he was invited to participate
in the massacre of the negroes by H. N.
Smith, one of the men now in the
county jail under indictment for mur
der in the first degree for complicity in
the lynching. Smith gave McCarver the
names of the men who would compose
the mob, and told how the negroes
would be arrested by Detective W. S.
Richardson, placed in a wagon and then
driven to Big creek swamp, where the
mob would be in waiting.
When the invitation to assist in the
assassination was tendered to young Mc
Carver it was represented that his
father knew all about it and that Judge
Cooper of the criminal court was not in
the dark.
These representations were untrue
and were made by Smith with the intention
, if possible, of mixing Sheriff
McCarver up in the affair through his
son so that his hands would be tied if
an investigation should be instituted by
the authorities.
Young McCarver declined to join the
mob, but the lynching came off on
schedule time. McCarver disclosed the
detailed of the plot to Joseph Thiers,
Chris Huffman and William Cox, and it
was from Thiers and Huffman that the
grand jury obtained its first information
about the plot.
Cox denied all knowledge of the affair
and was indicted for perjury. Criminal
Judge Cooper after learning of McCar-
ver's confession, ordered him placed un
der$ 10,000 bond to insure his presenco
at the trial but McCarver being unable
to furnish bail, was sent to jail.
