TWENTY MEN TRIED
FOR LYNCHING
One of Mob of Lynchers Turns
States Evidence
TESTIMONY IS UNSHAKEN
State Rests at the Conclusion of the
Statement by the Star Witness,
Who Gives Full Details of
Unlawful Occurrence.
Charlotte, N. C., July 16.- The trial of
twenty citizens of Anson county, this
state, charged with lynching J. V. John
son, which was begun yesterday at Mon
roe, was continued today.
Miss Alice Bogan, daughter of the
sheriff who was on the stand yesterday,
resumed her testimony, detailing how the
mob broke into the jail on the plea
of having a prisoner to commit, and how
theiy seized and held her father, took
the keys to Johnson's cell away from
him, released Johnson and after tleing
him with ropes, dragged him off down
the road to the point where he was
lynched. She positively identified several
of the defendants as being members of
the mob. The cross- examination of Sheriff
Bogan, who was recalled, fall to shake
his testimony in any particular. He recognized
many of the members of the
mob and called their names. John Jones,
against whom the present testimony is
directed, was one of the leaders, it is
said.
Henry Kendall, one of the mob, who
turned state's evidence, was put on the
stand today. He told of how the plan
to ride to Wadesboro and lynch J. V.
Johnson was perfected. The witness
knew all the members of the party and
called their names. With the others he
rode toward Wadesboro and met another
crowd from Richmond county, and all
proceeded to Wadesboro jail, took the
prisoner out and lynched him. Kendall's
story of the lynching was dramatic in
the extreme. He told how they took the
prisoner, struggling and praying for
mercy, tied him with ropes and dragged
him along the road a mile to a point in
the woods where more dead than alive
he was drawn up to a limb and then
riddled with bullets. His identification
of the leaders of the mob and many of
its members was complete and cross
examination failed to shake his testi
mony.
William Meeks and H. D. Kendall, Jr.,
corroborated the evidence of the elder
Kendall. At the conclusion of this testi
mony the state rested.
Johnston was lynched on the night of
May 28, 1906, and the crime for which he
was imprisoned was the wilful murder of
his brother- in- law, Carles Johnson. The
governor had called a special term of
court to him a few days before he
was lynched try.
