A DESPERADO LYNCHED.
Had Murdered Two Men Within
Two Weeks.
HIS LAST VICTIM THE SHERIFF.
A Mob Took Him from the Carried
Him to a Bridge, Fastened a ope About
Rb Neck and Compelled Him to Jump.
No Attempt at Secrecy.
LEXINGTON, Ky., Oct. 15.- Another
lynching was added to the unusually large
fall series of Blue Grass lynching bees yesterday
. On Saturday at the close of the
Beattyville fair Oscar Morton, a prominent
citizen of Stanton, in Powell county, went
on the warpath. Only two weeks age
Morton killed a man at Stanton, and was
out on$ 5,000 bond to appear next week at
the Powell eircuit court.
When Morton arrived at the fair he proceeded
to get drunk, and then went to
hunt for Sheriff William Simms, who was
his deadly enemy, a feud of long standing
existing between the two men. Simms
and Morton met near the entrance to the
fair grounds, and after a few words both
It
change of shots followed, Morton using and
two revolvers. His first shot broke the at
sheriff's right arm at the elbow, and John
Hogg, a friend of Simms, whipped out his
gun and joined in the battle. When the cure
smoke had cleared away it was found that cure
Sheriff Simms was dead, having a shot ather
through his breast, one in his abdomen ing
and another in his arm.
Morton was shot through the neck, lain
while Hogg was unhurt. Before a crowd been
could collect Morton was hustled to the
and placed under A
big meeting was at once held in the public
- square. Colonel John Drummond mounted
a barrel and made a speech, in which he
said the murderer must be hanged, but
it must be done quietly and with perfect eures
order. Morton had killed two men in less
than two weeks time, and he must die by
the rope.
A mob was quickly formed and marched
to the jail. The jailer was overpowered
of and the keys to Morton's cell obtained. He
was found lying on the floor of his cell,
and after a bitter struggle was seized and
to dragged out. He then became impudent,
and told the mob that he did not care what
they did with him, provided they did their
work quick. After a short parley he was
taken to a little bridge some distance from
the town, and the rope was placed around
his neck. The leaders drew their guns and
30,
told him to jump or else he would be rid- 6,80,
dled with bullets. 11.51
Turning around the doomed man cursed and
his captors, and uttering wild imprecations m.,
leaped into space. The jump broke his For
neck, and after dangling in the air for 5.00
some minutes he became still, and a volley
n.
of shots were fired into him. The mob m.,
For
, then dispersed, and the body was left dan 8.55,
gling from the bridge. day yester- 2,25,
day it was still there, but last evening was For
5.56
35 cut down. None of the mob made any at- For
. tempt to conceal their identity, and the Express
For
of hanging was conducted with as much for
Form
8.40
mality as if it had been a legal affair.
. The dead sheriff was only recently mar tions.5.40
ried and leaves a young wife. The mur 10.19
derer was a man lived at 4.24,
Stanton. He has killed three men. Com- night
ing to the fair he attempted to kill the fire
48,
H. man of the train because he would not in
crease the speed of the locomotive. This
is the eighth lynching For
in central Kentucky
in the past three months, and the people 15,
For
have determined to put down murder, if
they have to take the law in their own 8.13.
For
hands every time a man is killed.
p. m
Morton's relatives are incensed over the
lynching, and it may be that some old
feuds will be reopened. fort
