Joe Coe Hanged to a Trolley Wire by an
Infuriated Mob This Morning,
STORY OF THE ASSAULT ON THE JAIL.
Determination of the Self Appointed
Avengers of Little Lizzie Yates.
WOULD NOT BE BALKED NOR HINDERED.
Words of Counsel from Cool Men Were Not
Listened To.
CITY AUTHORITIES WERE POWERLESS.
Wild Clamor for a Fiend's Blood Only
Satisfied When it Was Quaffed
by the Ravenous
Populace.
Joe Coe, alias George Smith, was lynched
at 1:10 o'clock this morning. He was hanged
to a wire supporting the Harney street motor
wire in front of Boyd's opera house.
About 10,000 people were present.
Coe was dead before he was tied up, hay
ing been dragged by the neck from the jail
and trampled under the feet of thousands of
men as he passed.
His Victim Not Dead.
The report that was spread broadcast
throughout the city yesterday afternoon and
was published in the evening papers regarding
the alleged death of little five- year- old
Lizzie Yates, who was brutally assaulted by
a burly negro named George Smith, alias
Joe Coe, proved to be without foundatiou.
A BEE reporter visited the home of the
child's parents at 1712 North Eighteenth
street, last evening, and found the little one
in very good spirits and recovering from the
effects of the fearful treatment she had received
. Her father stated that she was get
ting along better than they had expected she
possibly could, and he thought she would be
herself again in a very few days, as she was
able to get around.
Taken to the County Jail.
The colored ravisher was taken from the
city jail by the police about 4 o'clock and
driven in the patrol wagon to the home of the
Yates family for the purpose of identification.
He was dressed in different clothes from
those he wore Wednesday afterncon, but
Mrs. Yates was quite certain that
he was the negro who had been
prowling around the place and represented
himself as a garbage man.
She said that she would not be willing to
swear positively as to his identity, but she
firmly believed that he was the brute who
had assaulted her child. The little girl was
still timid and very nervous from her experi
ence, and could not be induced to look at a
stranger, so nothing could be obtained from
her in the way of indentifying her assailant.
What Yates Said.
" I know that these are disagreeable cases,
and the officers are frequently not backed up
in their efforts to bring the guilty parties to
justice" he said," but it will not be so in this
case. I have heard talk of lynching during
a entire afternoon, but I would not encourage
any such demonstration and if possible
let the law take its course, although it is
slow and justice often miscarries. It is difficult
to identify the parties in some instances,
as perhaps there would be in this, although I
am satisfied in my own mind. Self control
is not always easy, and it was hard for me
to let that d- d scoundrel get out of the yard
alive."
Discussed the Crime.
On the street corners and in the down.
to resorts all the early part of the even
ing knots of men collected and talked about
the awful crime of the negro. There seemed
to ve but one opinion, and that was that the
negro must hang at the hands of a mob.
A hundred or so curious ones hung about
the jail and talked the matter over, but there
did not seem to be anyone to organize the
mob and lead it. At 8:30 a crowd collected
around the city jail and a delegation went
below to see if Sinith was confined there.
Jailor Havey assured the committee that the
prisoner had been taken to the county jail
and the crowd started for the brick building
on the hill.
By 9 o'clock there must have been 1,000
howling men around the court house and
jail. Every moment or so the crowd yelled
" Bring out the nigger," but the jail authorities
paid no attention to the cries of the
rapidly increasing crowd.
Suggested an Assault.
After a good deal of howling some one
yelled," Let's break the door," and soon a
line of men appeared carrying a long, heavy
post.
At this stage of the game Sheriff Boyd
arrived and standing on the east steps of the
jail addressed the crowd. The sheriff
said:" Gentlemen and fellow citizens
, as sheriff of Douglas
county
I command you to disperse. I know what
you want, but Smith is not here, he was
taken away about supper time."
" A fako. A lie," yelled the crowd and
then they howled again for the nigger.
After a moment the sheriff was able to
continue, and said that he must do his duty
and protect the jail.
" If I had my way," said Boyd, in closing,
" I would furnish the rope to hang the
wretch."
Bound to Have Blood.
Governor Boyd was sent for, and after
crowding his way to the jail steps, attempted
to speak, but the howling and cat calls
stopped only for a moment, while the governor
said:
" F'or the honor of Omaha, men, desist.
Your actions are a disgrace to the city and
will bring suame to every man in it. I implore
you to cease and let the law take its
tourse. Be men and disperse.
" Give us the nigger," yelled" the crowd.
" We'll tear him limb from limb," and the
cries drowned the governor's voice.
Then the big battering ram was taken up
and a few thrusts at the door given.
Councilman Morearty graboed hold of the
bars over the window of the jailer's office
and urged the mob on. Morearty started the
ball to rolling by thrusting his cane through
the bars and breaking the windows. This
act was met by applause and the councilman
continued until every pane of glass in the
two windows was shattered.
Battering at the Door.
A couple of dozen enraged men then took
up the heavy post and, using it as a ram,
started to break through the steul bars. This
could not be done, and attention was turned
to the window casing. Every stroke of the
timber was greeted with lusty cheers. S
" Keep on, we'll get him," cried those who
stood back and did no work. After a deal of
pounding the casing was broken and the iron
bars over the north side of the window re
moved.
" Let's go in," yelled everybody, but no
one seemed willing to take the lead as the
little jailor's office was filled with police who
stood with drawn revolvers.
Swarming Into the Jail.
An old white- haired man, Uncle Jimmie
Cannon, who was as much of a leader as any
one, said he would go and started to climb
into the window, but was met by Jailer
Lynch, who held a heavy Colt's revolver
at the old man's head and told him to keep
out. The leader backed down and the mob
hissed. plank
Then a twenty- foot was
brought up and shoved into the room clear
ing it of its occupants, who retreated
into the hall. Again the old man stood up
and was cheered. This time be went in, fol
lowed by the mob, who crawled through the
little aperature as fast as possible, while the
crowd swarmed up like a pack of hungry
wolves.
While this was going on Governor Boyd
endeavored to dissuade the mob from any
acts of violence, but his council was opposed
by Councilman Morearty, who shouted to the
crowd to come on and waved his cane and
hat frantically in the air. This sort of talk
was all the crowd wanted and they pushed
through the window as rapidly as possible.
Their Victim in Sight.
Once inside the crowd made short work of
the door opening from the office into the corridor
. The door opening into the large cell
on the lower floor was broken and the crowd
made its way upstairs to the room where
Neal spent the last hours of his life. The
door leading to this room was broken open
and the crowd surged into the room sur
reunding the steel cage, in one corner of
which crouched the miserable object of their
search, a blanket wrapped around him and
endeavoring to conceal himself.
As those inside caught sight of the negro
they set up a howl of delight, which was
quickly taken up by the crowd outside.
The police and jailers inside followed along
with the crowa but were utterly helpless.
The sight of the steel cage with its double
doors and strong bars did not daunt the at
tacking party and demands for sledge ham
mers, crowbars, cold chisels, etc., shouted
through the window met with quick response
from those outside and soon the
noise of resounding blows awakend the
echoes outside and were greeted with
cheers.
Shouting Bulletins.
A young fellow took post in the window
and at once established a series of bulletins,
shouting to the crowd below as the work
progressed. At short intervals he shouted
out such items as:
" They are working on the door:"" The
door is giving way;"" The nigger is pray
ing;"" We're getting there slow, but sure:"
" The outside door is open;"" They have to
cut a four- inch bar on the second door;"
" The nigger says he is a burgiar;"" The
niggor is taking it easier than we are," and
so on, each sally being greeted with howls
and cheers.
Police Were Not in It.
Meanwhile about a dozen policemen stood
about in the crowd, but they were utterly
helpless and did not attempt to do anything.
The crowd was constantly receiving acces
sions, and by this time there were about
10,000 people collected. The hill about the
jail was literally black with people, and Har
ney street from Eighteenth to Sixteenth was
filled with a howling, surging mob. It was a
good- natured mob, however, but it was determined
to carry its point. The several
policemen in the crowd suddenly conceived
the idea of forcing their way to the open win
dow and proceeded to put the idea into effect.
They had not gone raore than a few feet
when the crowd saw their obiect and the policemen
were picked up bodily and carried
back to the edge of the crowd.
Brought the Firemen.
About this time the attention of the crowd
was attracted by the noise of heavy wheels
and four companies of the fire department
arrived on the scene. A connection was
made by one of the- companies
with the hydrant at Eighteenth and
Haruey streets, and the water was
turned on. In less than two seconds there
twenty fountains spouting in the middle of
Harney street and several feet of new hose
was ruined by being cut. Other companies
tried to lay lines of hose, but the crowd just
picked the hose up as fast as it was strung
and carried it into the alley between Farnam
and Harney streets, where it was uncoupled.
Seeing all attempts to turn the hose on the
crowd were useless, the firemen were with
drawn.
While all this was going on the entire day
police force was massed at the north door of
the jail under command of Chief Seavey. The
object of the chief was to attempt to take the
negro from the crowd after they came out
of the jail.
Captain Cormack's Speech.
Becoming impatient at the slow work on
the window, a part of the crowd, under the
leadership of a big, burly red faced man.
swarmed around to the south door of the
building and up the steps to the entrance to
the sheriff's house.
" We'll get in here," cried the leader of this
gang, and he pounded on the door.
Captain Cormack stood inside and opened
the door.
" What do you want?" asked Cormack.
" We want to get in," yelled the crowd in
concert. The captain throw a big six shooter
up into the face of the leader and said:
" Get out of here. If you make another
Imove to get in this door I will kill you."
That kind of talk, coming from a man of
Cormack's caliber and backed by his reputation
as a man of nerve and a dead shot, was
too much for the crowd, so they swarmed
back and joined the mob on the lawn.
At the side, between the
jail and the north court house people
in like sardines
were packed
in a box. The blows of the hammer on the
steel cell recently occupied by Neal came
floating out through the window and nearly
every blow was greeted by a cheer.
Read the Riot Act.
About 10:30 Chief Seavey, accompanied by
a sergeant of police, pushed his way through
the crowds to the northeast corner of the
jail, where several men had mounted upon
ladders placed against the barred windows.
Pulling the men from the ladder the chief
turned to the crowd and in a loud tone of
voice exclaimed:
" In the name of the state of Nebraska I
hereby command you to disperse to your
several homes."
The command was received with mingled
cheers and yells of derision. Mounting the
ladder Chief Seavey finally managed to make
himself heard above the uproar. He said:
" Gentleman- The little girl who was injured
and reported dead by the papers this
afternoon is still alive and doing well."
That was all the chief managed to say, for
his voice was once more drowned in the balel
of sounds.
They Made the Run,
At twenty- five minutes past 12 the leaders
of the mob called to the crowd to give them
room to get out of the window of the jail
office. With a blood curdling yell the crowd
gave way for the leaders and the doomed
man. Several men sprang out of
the window. with the in
rope
their hands, others shoved the half
dead brute out of the window and then the
most fearful work ever witnessed at the
hands of a mob in Omaha was performed
amid the piercing yells of thousands of desperate
men.
No Pity for the Brute.
The rope was grasped by fully a hundred
men and they ran down the declining roadway
to the corner of Seventeenth and
Harney streets. The black brute was
dragged by the neck all the
way
and must have been nearly dead
before he had been dragged 100 feet. The
mob rushed upon him, kicking and jumping
upon him as he was jerked down over the
rough pavement, his clothing being almost
entirely torn from his body, and the skin
and flesh bruised and bleeding in a shocking
manner.
It is about seventy yards from the jail
window to the corner of the court house
square. This run of death was made in less
time than it takes to tell it.
Policemen Struggle with the Mob.
The officers struggled manfully to save the
doomed man, but they were absolutely help
less in the midst of the yelling, frenzied
crowd of determined men.
The leaders in the rope brigade made for a
telegraph pole at the southwest corner of
Harney and Seventeenth, but when one of
the lynchers had climed up the pole he found
no projection to throw the rope across, and he
quickly descended and led the way to
a pole that stands diagonally across the
street, directly north and across the street
from Boyd's theatre. It required at lea t
five minutes for those who had the man in
hand to get across the street.
A determined effort was made by the
police to rescue Coe. A back had
been driven through the crowd and
the corner of the street.
stopped near
Toward this hack the police officers made a
rush with the doomed man and a few of the
leaders of the mob.
All Efforts to Save Him Vain.
The struggle was that of giants. The
officers had the good sense not to draw their
clubs or revolvers. If they had there would
have been terrible bloodshed. They succeeded
in getting the culprit into a
hack, but the horses were quickly unhitched
and the officers overpowered.
Again the mob was in possession of the
doomed man. But the officers made one more
determined effort to save the almost dead
inan from the hands of the mob. They
rushed toward another hack, but the crowd
turned it upside down and actually smashed
it to pieces.
Then the leaders, who had hold of the rope,
made a rush for the northeast corner of the
street dragging the dead and mutilated body
after them.
One of the lynchers climbed up the pole
and threw the rope over several telephone
wires that stretch along Harney street.
Dangling in the Air.
Soon the end of the rope was returned to
the mob below and in the twinkling of an
eye the body of the black villain was dangling
in the air as limp and lifeless, apparently, as
a rag.
The muscles of one arm twitched convul
sively, but aside from that not a sign of life
appeared to be left in the body.
Expressed Their Satisfaction in Yel! s.
Then such a yell! It sounded like the
chorus that arises from the camp of a band
of Indians engaged in a war dance. The
great crowd filled the street for
a full block in every direction
and thousands stood in the court house cam
pus gazing upon the last dreadful scene in
the tragedy. No tragedy ever to be enacted
in the theatre just across the street will
thrill an audience with horror as did that
spectacle.
Swinging Limp and Lifeless.
Beneath the dangling body stood the mob,
looking up at the object of their fearful re
venge, their faces gleaming in the eiectric
light and their voices filling the air with the
cries of a vengeance fully satisfied.
From a distance the body looked so limp
and lifeless that many supposed it was a
dummy.
" That don't go! that don't go!" they
shouted; but the leaders who stood close to
the corpse that swung above their heads assured
the crowd that it was a nigger all
right." And then the air was rent with a
chorus of horrible yells.
Made Sure it Was the Negro.
A street car stood on the track near by and
several men climbed upon that to make sure
that the object suspended in the air was the
body of the negre. Gradually the crowd be
come convinced that the deed had really been
accomplished, the object of their wrath was
dead.
The doomea man was swung into the air
at exactly twenty- five minutes to 1 o'clock.
Held by the Horror.
Whue the majority of the great crowd
quietly left for their homes fully 1,000 per
sons remained and completely blocked the
streets and sidewalks near the dead man.
Some one standing on the pavement directly
under the corpse called for a speech.
Julius S. Cooley was spotted first and compelled
by the hoots and cries to make a talk.
Cooley didn't say much of anything beyond
showing the great saving to the county by
such actions, and advocated the laws of
Judge Lynch on account of celerity and
economy.
Just then some one saw Governor Boyd
stepping into his carriage, in front of the
opera house, and immediately there went up
a great howl Boyd. The carriage of the
governor kept for right on going though and in
a moment disappeared around the corner of
Seventeenth and Faruam.
Then George O'Brien hove in sight and
was urged to speak. Taking off his hat and
standing on the edge of the sidewalk
O'Brien addressed the crowd. He said:
" Of course public sentiment will frown
upon such action as this as long as there are
laws. I don't think there is a married man
or woman, a sister, brother, father or mother
in the whole city of Omaha that will not
commend your action of tonight and say that
you all did right."
Then the Coroner Came.
Just the n Coroner Harrigan drove up and
viewed the body. Everybody yelled for
Harrigan, and the doctor, standing beneath
the dangling corpse in the flickering light,
said:
" What is done is done; actions speak
louder than words."
Heafy& Heafy's undertaking wagon drove
up as the coroner ceased speaking and was
greeted with cheers. Some cried:
" Let him hang, d- n him, it was a good
job."
Amid such remarks the body was quickly
lowered into the box, after having hung just
one hour, and with one final hurrah the
wagon drove away down Farnam street on a
gallop.
At 2 o'clock this morning Coroner Horrigan
viewed the remains of Coe as they lay in
the undertaking rooms at Heafey's. He
stated that the man's neck was broken and
that life was extinct when the body was cut
down. The inquest will be held at 3 o'clock
this afternoon.
In the Midst of the Mob,
The crush and press of the crowd was
something fearful as it swayed back and
forth. After Coe was brought down to the
jail office and while the crowd was wait
ing for those who knew him to
make sure of his identification, the
crowd made a clear path several times half
way down to the street near Boyd's opera
house by the stalwarts catching hands in a
line and holding the others back. But the
press of thousands behind soon broke
the bulwark of arms and hands and
the ranks woud close again with a rush.
Boys and weakly men were in danger
of being crowded to death. Crowbars and
sledgehammers were handed in over the
heads of the crowd until it seemed that
there must have been a wagon load of them
on the inside. When it was announced
that the culprit had been pulled from his cell
the crowd fairly split the air with their
yells.
" Hang him, hang hin" was the cry."
Police officers were absolutely powerless in
the crowd.
Sheriff Boyd Missing.
After Sheriff Boyd had concluded his
speech at the jail window he ddenly dis
appeared and was not seen by parties around
the jail until after Coe was dead.
People wondered why such was
it
the case, but is easily explained
, as the sheriff was abducted.
He hastily made his way to the north door of
the jail, and at once passed out, Hardly had
he stepped upon the pavement before he was
surrounded by a score of masked men. The
sheriff reached for his revolver and was in
the act of drawing it from his pocket,
when his arms were pinioned from behind.
He was lifted up bodily and carried down the
stone driveway, and then walked to the rear
of the High school building, where he was
kept a prisoner until 1 o'clock this morning.
The sheriff, in speaking of the incident,
stated that, owing to the masks that the
men wore, he was unable to recognize
any of them. While he was held a prisoner
he was fully informed of how things were
going on at the jail, as his captors were well
organized, having a number of couriers who
traveled back and forth between the two
points.
Judge Doane Pleaded for Order.
At 10:45 Judge Doane appeared upon the
scene. He crowded his way through the
mob until he reached a point midway be
tween the steps at the south of the court
house and the jail. Then he stopped and in
a loud clear tone of voice that was
heard above the din of sledge hammer blows
that were being deait upon the cage in which
Coe was confined, peaded with the mob to
use reason and proceed slowly. He urged
that the law should be allowed
to take its course and that justice
would be meted out. The mob.
listened, but only for an instant. Again the
sledge hammer blows were renewed, while
the judge crowded his way through the mob
and succeeded in gaining entrance to the
main corridor. There he stopped and pleaded
with those inside.
As he was talking, Coe, more dead than
alive was drawn down the long corridor and
into the office. Once more Judge Doane.
lifted his voice in pleading for the colored
man's life, but it was too late, as before
he had concluded his remarks
Coe was pushed through the window and
was being dragged down over the cruel
rocks in the direction of the southeast corner
of the court house grounds.
Coe Was Married.
Coe, the man who was lynched by the mob,
was married. He had a wife and one child,
who reside in the alley between Eleventh
and Twelfth streets, in the rear of the Wells,
Fargo express office.
Notwithstanding the terrific jam, no seri
ous accidents occurred, though several per
sons were more or less injured oy being
knocked down and walked over.
As Coe was dragged down the roadway
from the jail there was a rush to
get out of the way of the men who
were pulling the rope, that they might
have a clear path. Like a flock
of sheep the men ran down the grassy slopes
of the court house grounds, over the retain
ing walls and fell or jumped to the pavement
below. Bruised shins and sore heads were
reported. One man was said to have broken
his leg, but who he was was not known, as
he was placed in a cab and driven away.
Women in the Crowd.
While the participants in the hanging
were men, hundreds of women witnessed the
scenes from start to finish. But few of
them ventured upon the court house
grounds, but upon the streets they
were everywhere conspicuous. They
stopped on the way home from their shopping
tours and places of business and apparently
took as much interest in the proceedings as
the men. When the theaters closed, another
mass joined the crowd and held their positions
until the body was cut down.
INSIDE THE JAIL.
How the Sheriff and His Assistants
Sought to Save Coe.
Sheriff Boyd was in bed when the first
warning of trouble as received. It was
about 8:30 o'clock, and the sheriff, worn out
with the exciting duties that had devolved
upon him during the day, had just retired
when there was a ring at the telephone and
the sheriff was impatiently called for.
He responded and was told that trouble
was impending at the jail. He hastily
dressed and hurried to the jail, wholly un
conscious of what the trouble could be, as he
was not then aware that Smith had been
removed from the city to the county jail, the
transfer having been made about 4 o'clock in
the afternoon.
When he reached the court house grounds
he found fully 1,000 people gathered about
the vicinity, many of them being close around
the jail. As soon as he was admitted to the
jail he demanded to know what was the mat
ter, and the situation was quickly made
known to him. Smith was then confined in
the upper tier of cages in the main cell
room, where all the bound over
prisoners are kept. The sheriff
ordered
him instantly removed to the
steel solitary in the east wing that for months
had been the abode of Ed Neal. As the negro
passed him, the sheriff said that he would
protect him to the of his ability as long
as he was in his( Boyd's best) custody, but that
