DOWN. SHOT MEN
A Terrible Riot Takes Place at
Roanoke, Va.
Militia Called Out by the Mayor to Protect
a Prisoner in Jail- A Mob Attacks
the Jall and the Militia Kill Seven
Men and Wound Many Others.
ROANOKE, Va., Sept. 21.- Robert
Smith, a negro, yesterday assaulted
and nearly killed Mrs. Henry Bishop,
wife of a well- to- do farmer of Bote
tourt county. Mrs. Bishop was at the
market with a load of produce and
Smith bought a box of grapes. He
asked her to go with him to get them
in, and taking her to a house near by,
locked the door and bound her. Then
drawing a razor he demanded her
money. She gave it up and while doing
so jerked the razor from his hand. The
negro choked her, threw her down and
pounded her head with a brick, leaving
her for dead. Mrs. Bishop shortly af
terwards regained consciousness and
returning to the market told of the out
rage. Detective Baldwin soon arrested
the negro. The excited crowd at
tempted to take Smith away from the
officer and lynch him, but Baldwin,
with the prisoner on a horse, dashed at
full speed in face of the crowd and
soon had him behind the bars.
A crowd gathered around the jail
and kept increasing as night approached
. At 5 o'clock the Roanoke
light infantry marched to the jail by
orders of Mayor Trout. Guards were
posted and the streets in the immedi-
ate vicinity cleared. About dark they
were increased by a hundred men from
the vicinity of the Womans' home,
headed by Mrs. Bishop's son, a fireman
on the Norfolk& Western railroad. At
8 o'clock portions of the mob battered
at the side door of the jail, where the
militia and Mayor Trout had retired.
The shooting was commenced by the
mob and the mayor was shot in the
foot. The militia were then ordered
to return the fire and a volley from
about twenty- five rifles was poured into
the mob. Seven men were killed by
this fire and as many wounded, some of
them fatally. During the excitement
caused by the volley the negro was
taken from the jail by an officer and
secreted.
The dead and wounded were removed
to a drug store and the offices of the
nearby physicians. The militia were
then dispersed and left the scene as
quietly as possible.
The following is a list of the dead as
far as known: S. A. Vick, hotelkeeper;
Will Sheetz, fireman on the N.& W. R.
R .; Charles W. Whitmore, conductor
ou the N.& W. R. R .; J. B. Tyler, of
Blue Ridge; George White, shot
through the leg and bled to death; W.
Jones engineer on the N.&. W. R. R .;
John, Mills, distiller, Back Creek.
