" Well, if I'm chosen I shall not kick."
" You are not courting the part, I hope."
" Not courting the part, but it looks now
that the goat business might be overdone.
In that event, goats after a time may be
come popular. We may see Wilson and
others combing the wilderness to recover
for practical purposes the outcasts they
are now consigning to destruction."
A Superserviceable Sheriff.
Sheriff Stahl of Kenosha county, Wis.,
is an enterprising and hustling public
officer, and undoubtedly inspired with
great zeal for his calling and love of jus-
tice, but the manner in which he manifests
his concern that the heavy hand of
the law should fall upon the guilty is not
altogether in tune with the sentiment of
enlightenment that supposedly prevails in
As sheriff of his
civilized communities.
county he is presumably the foe of all
forms of crime and a bitter enemy of the
lynching method of administering justice.
Sheriff Stahl, commissioned to arrest a
negro who was wanted for stealing a
gun worth$ 60, pursued the man for
thirty miles with a small squad of deputies
before catching him. He then had
of the deputies round up a" mob" of
one framed up a
neighboring farmers and framed up a
fake lynching party, with a well staged
attack by the outraged people and a pretended
preparation to take the prisoner's
life. The rope was around the man's
neck when he decided to confess .. This
was what the sheriff was after, and as
soon as the thief had acknowledged his
guilt the officer dismissed the" mob" with
fervent thanks for its assistance in ex-
tracting the truth.
The court to which this sheriff reports
should admonish him that in appealing
to a mob, however fictitious or actually
peaceful its purpose, he was violating
one of its most solemn precepts. Police
officers should not regard it as their chief
obtain confessions. This is the
duty to
evil of the so- called third degree, the ex-
istence of which has now been officially
denied by a congressional investigating
committee. Sheriff Stahl of Kenosha
county is no different in his methods from
the medieval torturers who applied hot
frons to the soles of the feet of their vic
/-
tims, who pinched their flesh with exquisite
care to avoid fatal injury but to inflict
great agony, who crushed the hands
with screws and stretched the limbs on
the rack, and applied a hundred and one
variations of this theme of bodily torment
to extort acknowledgments of guilt.
would probably very greatly surprise this It
