LYNCH LAW AGAIN.
On Friday night of last week Little
Rock witnessed a spectacle perhaps unequaled
in the history of this or any
other state. A brutal negro named
James committed a nameless crime upon
the person of a 5- year- old white girl, was
arrested and incarcerated in the county
jail. Rumors of the organization of
a mob to lynch the criminal reaching
the ears of the officers, James was
secretly conveyed to the penitentiary
for safe- keeping. The mob organized
early in the evening and, proceeding to
the jail, demanded that the prisoner
be turned over to them for summary
punishment. The leaders were in
formed that he was not in the jail. A
search confirmed this statement. In
some manner the enraged mob ascertained
that James had been placed in
the penitentiary. By this time their
ranks had been swelled to about a
thousand men They at once repaired
.
to the penitentiary and demanded the
prisoner. Their demand was prompt-
ly refused. The penitentiary buildings
were supposed to be mob proof but in
-
,,
fact, it afforded but a flimsy barrier to
the determined men who had taken it
upon themselves to avenge the greatest
crime that can be inflicted upon society.
The penitentiary officials little under
stood the temper of the mob. Heavy
sledgehammers were procured and the
massive gates, under the influence of
the tremendous blows dealt by strong
arms, went down like pasteboard.
The prisoner was quickly found and
secured and led forth for identification
. This done, he was dragged to
the corner of Main and Fifth streets,
in the heart of the business
very
porceive
tion of the city, where he was allowed
a few moments for prayer He first
.
denied and then admitted his guilt.
A rope was thrown over the cross- arm
of a telephone pole, adjusted about the
trembling culprit's neck and he was
jerked into the air. Hundreds of bul
lets perforated his body, and another
was added to the long list of Judge
Lynch's victims. These lynchings
will increase in proportion as the crime
for which James was mobbed increases.
It is not a pleasant duty to record such
transactions- far from it. This paper
is in favor of law and order under most
circumstances; but the terrible increase
in the crime of rape calls for a prompt
and sharp remedy. Whether lyuching
affords the remedy is questionable.
Almost daily we read of stringing
up of lecherous beasts for the this offense,
but it does not diminish the crime. In
fact, it is becoming so common that
men are beginning to feel they are incurring
a serious risk to leave the
females of their families unprotected
for even an hour. It is not our desire
to unduly alarm anyone, but the facts,
as daily recorded, bear us out in this
assertion. This crime is not confined
to either color, but it is patent that
most of the rapes are committed by
negroes. Why this is true we cannot
say, but that it is true no one will deny.
A remedy must be found- and found
speedily- or there is no telling to where
it will lead. If the courts cannot cope
with it, then mobs will certainly take
the matter in hand; and if mob law
can overcome the evil, then let us have
the mobs. Anything, in the name of
heaven, to put a stop to the infernal
crime.
St. Francis county has only had one
case of this character within the knowledge
of the writer, and the offender
was hanged by operation of law in 1879.
He was a colored man and a preacher.
Fortunately our county is inhabited by
a better class of colored citizens, and
we hope never to be called upon to witness
the mobbing of one of their num-
Just so
ber for this heinous crime.
surely as rape is committed in this community
, just so surely will the culprit
swing for it, be he white or black. His
color will cut no figure in the case.
is time these fiends were learning this It.
