000000000 ........... oooooooooooooooooooo00000000000TODAY'S
AGE- HERALD
1- Nineteen killed in train wreck.
Chief Justice -Fuller dies suddenly.
Big increase in moonshine distilling.
Negroes leave after double lynching.
Taft addresses educators at Harvard.
War problems delayed at Chattanooga
Race riot .. in small Georgla town.
AFTER THE DOUBLE LYNCHING
NEGROES LEAVE CHARLESTON
Charleston, Mo., July 4.- An exodus in
the negro population of Charleston is reported
to be in progress, following the
double lynching on yesterday, when Robert
Coleman and Sam Fields were hanged
by an infuriated mob for the murder of
William Fox, a Mississippi county farmer.
An investigation of the affair at the re
quest of Governor Hadley will be made
by the prosecuting attorney today.
Sheriff Gulp and his deputies, whom
he has
sworn in after the' lynching,
threats were made were powerless against
the crowd which attacked the county jail
.
No shots were fired on either side. In
the crowd which packed the courthouse
yard in front of the jail were many wom
en and children and the officers feared on
that account to resort to shooting. On
the outskirts of the crowd were several
automobiles, their occupants standing on
the seats, the better to watch the attack
on the jail.
Seemingly the mob waited only for a
leader. About 4 o'clock in the afternoon
a man seemed to take charge and the
crowd rushed forward. A concerted rush
was made at the jail and in a moment
the front fence of the yard was trampled
down.
heriff and his men were brushed
aside. There was no turning back then,
even had the leaders been so inclined for
the hundreds in the rear were pushing
forward, shouting for the lives of the
negroes. A railroad tie was shoved fora
battering ram The mob
ward as
.
shouted with increasing rage as the
went down and the crowd pushed door into
| the building. Another door was in the way.
This was smashed in a second and the
crowd surged upstairs to the second floor,
where the two negroes were confined.
Those in the yard- the women and chil
dren- could hear the sounds of a sledge
hammer as the lock was knocked off the
cell door. In a few moments a shout announced
that the lock had been broken.
Coleman was dragged forth and lynched
in the jail yard, while the crowd cheered.
A man climbed up a tree and put one
end of the rope over a limb. The negro
was jerked up and soon swung clear of
the crowd. While Coleman dangled an
other body of men rushed from the jail,
the other Sam
dragging and pulling negro,
Fields. A rope was placed around his
neck, and the mob, shouting, started west
along Court street.
The negro said he would show the men
where he and Coleman had hidden the
revolver they had used in shooting Wil
liam Fox, whose death the crowd avenged
. men in charge, after a short
The
párley, decided to take the negro to find
the revolver, The rope still about his
neck and drawn tightly by his captors,
Fields was thrown into a carriage.
Followed by the mob on foot, in car-
raints and automobiles, the vehicle containing
Fields started to the scene of the
shooting half a mile south of town.
After going part of the way the negro
told the captors" he guessed after all" he
couldn't find the pistol.
A stop was made then and Fields was
jerked out of the carriage wit any
preliminaries, the rope was thrown over
the limb of a tree and Fields was strung
still
This morning his body was
up.
swinging. The body of the other negro
was cut down by several persons, who
wanted pieces of the rope as souvenirs.
The crime which a mob avenged by
lynch law was committed about 10 o'clock
Saturday night. The motive of the at
tack was robbery.
**** 0 ********
