THE M'COMB CITY TRAGEDY.
While the coroner's jury was investigating
the midnight murder of Mr
Archie Calquhoun, three negro men
John Johnson, Joe Gray and John
Williams, were arrested on suspicion and
placed in the MComb City jail where
they remained till Saturday afternoon.
Then Johnson was taken to the sceze
of the crime and hanged at 6:30 o'clock
by a mob. Gray and Williams were given
in custody of Capt. A. A, Boyd, sheriff,
who hastened to Magnolia and placed
them in the county jail. He then return-
ed in the hack to McComb leaving the
jail in charge of deputy sheriff, C. D.
Miller. When he reached Lenoir's bridge,
Capt Boyd met a man who told him that
the mob had hung John Johnson and in
tended to come to Magnolia and get
Williams and Gray. The man was told to
convey the news to Mr. Miller, and the
sheriff hurried on to MeComb to see if he
could not prevent the mob from coming.tly
Mr. Miller received the message a few
minutes before the mob arrived on a train
( which they took from the yard in Me
Comb,) and immediately unlocked the
jail doors and took the prisoners out
He chained them together
, and, ac
companied by Mr D. C. Wright, Jr. ran
to the cemetery, where they left the
rood and went through the woods. Five
miles from town a team was obtained
from Ben Taylor, colored, and Mr. Wright
returned to agnolia.
A ter partaking of refreshments, Mr.
Miller and his prisoners got in the hack
and started for Gloster, which they
reached in time to take the North bound
train for Jackson where they were met
by Capt Boyd and the prisoners placed
in the penitentiary for safe keeping.
Mr. Miller returned here on the early
train Monday and has been highly complimented
for his gallant condnet.
The coroners jury is still in session,
and we trust will leave no stone un
turned in the effort to ascertain who
killed Mr. Calquhoun.
It said by some that the negro hung by
the mob confessed that he and the two
others now in Jackson, did the awful
deed, while others say that he declared
that he was innocent to the very last,
and did not know who did it.
The Gazette would not knowingly do
injustice to any one and therefore, gives
statements, buwill not vouch for
both the truthfuluess of either.
