LOCAL NEWS.
--Mr. Kittle, the young man who has
raised such a hub bub about the Howard
mob, has now very wisely concluded to let
the whole malter drop, and we can only
hope that he will not find himself in the
position of the man who, having caught a
good hold of a red- hot poker, couldn't let
go again. Mr. Kittle stands in a very un
enviable position. It appears now that he
acted entirely by himself in this whole mat
ter, and that his object was blackmail. He
went to Justice Ried Monday morning last,
all by himself and perfectly sober, and
made an affidavit to the effect that he had
personal knowledge of those who composed
the mob that hung Nelson Howard, but
mentioning the name only of Alex. Mil
burn as one of the party. He swore out a
warrant for Milburn's arrest, had himself
appointed a deputy sheriff and came down
here to arrest Milburn. When he served
his warrant Milburn told him to" go to
-." He told Milburn he did not want
to arrest him. He was sorry for what he
had done, but he couldn't help it now. All
he wanted now was a little money and he
would leave this section of country. He
also exhibited a list of names which, he
said, had been obtained from a woman
down town to whom one of the party had
disclosed the whole secret and given all the
names. He probably expected Milburn
and the others whose names appeared in
his list to" fork over" liberally in order to
keep him quiet. But he was mistaken in
this idea. The boys didn't scare worth a
cent and he has been compelled to make
strenuous efforts to let go and crawl back
into his little hole. As intimated before,
whether he will be permitted to crawl back
now unmolested is somewhat doubtful. It
18 just probable that the men against whom
he plotted will not rest under the stigma
he has placed upon them in his affidavit
and in his verval ramblings; It is just likely
that they will now compel him to carray his
scheme to its legitimate end- compel him
to go before the properly constituted tribunal
, and there either make good his
charges or stand convicted of a most infamous
attempt to extort money from them -- to
gain a few paltry dollars by a bold, outrageous
plot involvingla sacrifice of the good
names, the liberty and the lives of a score
of innocent men! It is barely possible that
Kittle will be able to meet such an emergency
, but it is not probable at all- in fact
there a very strong probability just the
is way.
