AVENGED
The Murderers of Chief Hennessy are
Shot by Indignant Citizens
New Orleans. of
Mob of Over Three Thousand
Headed by Prominent Men of
City do the Job. the
NEW ORLEANS, March 16- New Orleans
struck the Mafia a death blow to- day.
It rose in its might almost at midday and
wreaked a terrible vengeance upon the
Sicilian assassins who relentlessly slew
David C. Hennessy; and, though there are
eleven men dead to- night who were happy
yesterday over their victory in the greatest
criminal trial the city has ever witnessed,
the work of bloodshed was accomplished
without unnecessary disorder, without riot
ing, without pillaging, and without the infliction
of suffering upon any innocent
one, and he man
Following are the names of those who
met death at the hands of the enraged
ulace: pop
Manuel Polietz, Pietro Monastro, Antonio
Scaffedi, Joseph P. Macheca, Antonio Marchesi,
Bagnetto, Frank Romero, Jim Caruso,
Antonio Rocco Gerachi, Charles Trahine and Comitez.
It was not an unruly midnight mob. It
was simply a sullen, determined body of
citizens who took into their hands
what justice had ignominously failed own to do.
Last night a body of cool- headed men,
lawyers, doctors, merchants and political
leaders- all persons of influence and social
standing- quietly met, and decided that
some action must be taken, and the people's
justice, swift and vis
sure,
ited upon those whom the jury had
neglected to punish. This morning a
call for a mass meeting at Clay square on
Canal street appeared in the papers, which
editorially deprecated violence. The significant
closing sentence of the call was
Come prepared for action.",
W. S. Parkerson, the leader, is a prominent
lawyer here, the president of the
Southern Athletic club, and the man who
led the vigorous city re! orm movement
three years ago. Walter D. Doneger, an
other of the speakers, is one of the leaders of
the New Orleans bar; John C. Wickliffe
also a prominent attorney, and James D.
Houston, of the foremost men of the state.
After denouncing Detective O'Malley, who
supposed to have tampered with the
jury, the speakers announced that they
would lead the way the parish prison,
Mr. Wickliffe concluding to with these words:
Shall the execrable Mafia be allowed to flour
ish in this city? Shall the Mafia be allowed to
cut down our citizens on public streets by foul
means of assassination? Shall the Mafia be
allowed to bribe jurors to let murderers go
free? scot
HEADED FOR THE JAIL.
The Determined Crowd, Well Armed,
Starts for the Prey.
By this time the crowd had swelled to
three thousand or more and before any one
could realize what had happened, the great
throng, gaining recruits at every street, was
tramping down the street to the neighbor
hood of the prison, stopping only once,
and that was at the arsenal, where double
barrelled shot guns, Winchester rifles and
pistols were handed out to responsible
respectable citizens in the party. and
When the vanguard of armed citizens
reached the prison which is many squares
from Canal street, that grim old building
was surrounded on all sides. Sheriff Viller,
when he heard that a movement was
foot to take the prisoners on
ARMED HIS DEPUTIES
and then started on a hunt for fayor
Shakespeare. The Italian consul and Attorney
General Rogers joined in the pur
sait, but his honor does not reach his office
till noon and he was not to be found at any
of his regular haunts. The governor had
not heard of the uprising and had no time
to act. The police force was too small to
offer much resistance to the army of
ers. aveng
Meanwhile the prisoners were stricken
with terror, for they could hear distinctly
the shouts of the people without, madly
manding their blood. de
Innocent and guilty alike were frigtened
out of their senses, and the prisoners who
were charged with crimes other than complicity
in the murder of the chief also
shared in the general demoralization.
Some of the braver among the
tives of the Mafia wanted to die representa
FIGHTING FOR THEIR LIVES,
and they pleaded for weapons with which
defend defend themselves, and when they
could not get them they sought hiding
places. The deputies, thinking to deceive
the crowd by a ruse, transferred the prison
ers to the female department, and there the
miserable Sicilians trembled in terror until
the moment when the doors would
the angry throng on the outside. yield
Capt. Davis refused the request to open
the prison and the crowd began the work
of battering in the doors. On the street
there was a heavy wooden door which had
been closely barred in anticipation of
coming of the avenging mass. the
THE AVENGERS
pressed into the yard of the white prison
ers. The door of the first cell was open and
group of trembling prisoners stood inside.
They were not the men who were wanted,
and the crowd very quickly, though
remarkable coolness, burst into the yard with.
Peering through the bars of the condemned
cell was a terror- stricken face which
some one ristook for Scoffedo. A volley
was fired at the man and he dropped, but
none of the shots struck him, and it was
subsequently found that he was not one
of the assassins. The inmates of the jail
were ready to direct the to
way
where the Italians were." Go to the female
department," some one yelled, and thither
the men with their Winchesters ran, but
the door was locked. In a moment the
key was produced. Then the leader called
for some one who knew the right men, and
volunteer responded and the door was
thrown open. The gallery was deserted, but
an old woman, speaking as fast as
could, said the men were up stairs. she
A party of seven or eight quickly ascended
the stair case, and as they reached
the landing the assassins filed down at the
other end. Half a dozen followed them.
Scarcely a word was spoken. It was
time for action. the
FILLED WITH LEAD.
Deadly Rain of Bullets Pours Into the
screaming Prisoners.
When the pursned and the pursuers
reached the stone court yard the former
darted toward the Orleans side of the gal
lery and crouched down beside the cells.
faces blanched,
Their and, being
unarmed, they were absolutely defenseless
. In fear and trembling they
screamed for mercy. But the avengers were
merciless. Bang,, bang, rang out the
reports of the murderous bang weapons and a
poured into the
ching figures.
Manuel Polietz and Antonio Bagnetto,
were hanged and their bodies riddled with
bullets, the rest of the assassins were shot.
As soon as the bloody work was done the
leaders addressed the mob and asked
disperse. them
This they consented to do with a ringing
shout, but first they made a rush for Park
erson, and, litting him bodily, supported
him on their shoulders while they marched
up the street. The avengers came back in
body to the Clay statue and then
parted. de
The bodies of some of the slain were re
moved this evening. Caruso was married
but leaves no children, Romero has a wife
and children and Macheca a wife and
. Comitez leaves a wife. fami
The coroner and his jury viewed the re
mains and presented a simple finding
They did not say who shot the men..
Intense indignation is manifested toward
the who of
them have been discharged from their situations
. Foreman Seligman has been expelled
from the Stock Exchange and the
Young Men's Gymnastic club. It is
that the jury was bribed. charged
HENNESSY'S ASSASSINATION.
The Cause Which Led to Summary Punishment
of the Italians.
The following is given as a clear state
ment of the actuating causes which led to
the tragedy enacted this morning, as ascertained
from interviews with a number of
citizens, some of them active
prominent participants in the stirring events of to- day:
On October, 1890, at about 11 o'clock at
night, D. C. Hennessy, chief of police of
the city of New Orleans, going from his of
fice to his home was waylaid and shot to
pieces by a band of Italian assassins, armed
with such blunderbusses as could only have
been made and used for the purpose of
sassination. as
The indignation and the excitement was
such that mob law and lynching were
about to be resorted to. To allay excite
ment and to assist the constituted authorities
, the mayor of the city appointed a committee
of fifty representative citizens to
take charge of the investigations and to aid
the trial and conviction of the assassins
measure arrested violence..
The committee entered upon its work,
and at a meeting subsequently held int
of the city hall the actions of the
mittee were ratified, and they were en
raged to continue their labors to
the prosecution and trial by the courts secure.
