Denver, Colo., Nov. 26.- The dailies
this morning publish the answer of
Sheriff Freeman of Lincoln county, to
the letter of District Attorney McAllister
asking him to arrest the lynchers of
John Porter. In his answer, Sheriff
Freman says:
" Under the laws of this state neith-
neither rape nor murder is punishable
by death, nor are rape and murder
combined punishable by death under
the law, and yet every man of common
sense knows who was at all familiar
with the horrible particulars of the
rape of Louise Frost and her fiendish
murder, that the citizens of Lincoln
county would not wait for the slow
processes of the law and the wholly in-
adequate punishment that would come
as a result of a conviction under the
Law.
" The men who took Preston Porter
from my custody were citizens of Lincoln
county, and personally known to
you and to other officials of the district
and state. The lodging of informations
against them and the trial of them for
lynching the prisoner would be wholly
fruitless, and would impose upon the
county an enormous expense without
any beneficial results whatsoever.
" I have no desire to avoid any re-
sponsibility, but do not intend to make
a grandstand play in order to set my
self right in the eyes of yourself or
Governor Thomas, or those citizens
who were pleased to meet in Denver
and pass resolutions after the lynching
had taken place.
" If that meeting of preachers and
lawyers, politicians and sentimentalists
at Coliseum hall had been held before
the lynching the lynching might have
probably been defered for a period of
ten or twelve days. You certainly
know that no jury could be impaneled
in Lincoln county, or by change of
venue in Douglass county, El Paso
county, Kit Carson county, or Teller
county, which would convict any one
under any conceivable charge that
might be brought against him of complicity
in this lynching."
After stating that the affair has no
political significance, and that he will
not permit the governor and district
attorney to saddle the blame on him,
Sheriff Freeman adds:
" When it comes to the administering
of death to a brute who first rapes the
child, and then stabs and kicks her to
death, I take it that true Americans
lose sight of mere politics and remember
only that they are only fathers and
brothers. It seems to me we had bet-
ter let this episode rest where it
now." is
Boston, Nov. 24.- Booker T. Washington
said last night regarding the re
recent lynching of a negro in Colorado
that the same class of people who be
gan to break the law by lynching a
negro will soon learn to break the law
by lynching a white man.
" I think," said Mr. Washington,
" that the Colorado lynching emphasizes
the fact that the only way to stop such
outbreaks is, in the first place, to bring
about such general education, not only
in books, but in industry and thrift,
as will make odious such acts as that
which provoked the lynching fever, and
then to educate public sentiment up to
the point where people of all parts of
the country will see that we only can
have the highest civilization if the law
is enforced regardless of race or color,
" Wherever people begin to lynch for
one kind of offense they are soon led
into the temptation of lynching for
any other kind of offense. Aside from
the injustice that is perpetrated upon
the individual put to death without a
legal trial, we must bear in mind that
there is a permanent degradation
which comes to the individual who
takes part in witnesses such an
outrage as occurred and in Colorado."
