THE SOUTH'S BAR TO IMMIGRATION
Referring to the lynch of Frank and
" other recent barbarous episodes in
the South," the Philadelphia Record
asks:" Is it any wonder that immigrants
avoid that section of the coun-
try?"
This is forcible as far as it goes, but
it leaves out of sight the chief reason
why the Southern States have attracted
little immigration. Lynching, except
on the wild frontiers of the West,
is comparatively modern, being practically
unknown in the Southern States
prior to the disturbed period following
the war of secession, but the chief bar
to immigration to the South has existed
more than a hundred years. Between
1800 and 1860, the immigrant
did not wish to go South and meet the
competition of slave labor, and after
the emancipation of the slaves he was
equally indisposed to compete with
cheap negro labor. Reports of law-
lessness was no doubt influential in
many individual cases, but the average
European immigrant has not cared to
meet either the slave or the free
labor in the industrial field. black
In 1790 Virginia had more than twice
the population of New York, while six-
ty years later New York had more than
twice the population of Virginia and
had also forged ahead in all industrial
lines Similar was the story of the
.
North and South as a whole during
that period- a period in which lynch-
ings were practically unheard of ex-
cept beyond reach of organized government
in the West. The population
of the two sections was about equal
in 1790, but that of the North was
more than double that of the South in
1860. The only reasonable explanation
is that the institution of slavery not
only restricted the South to agriculture
alone, but frightened off immigration
and thus induced a condition of arrest
ed industrial development. Such was
the result of the presence of the ne
slave. The result
gro as a of the
presence of the negro in the South as
a freeman has been scarcely less
marked, remaining an effectual bar to
immigration. Until very recent times
I only a few white laboring men from
Europe of the Northern States have
been disposed to face the competition
which has crushed the Southern" poor
whites" for a century. Competition
with slavery was followed by a scarce
ly less unequal competition with a
lower standard of comfort.
Such conditions are now being modified
. Negros are coming North, and
whites are going South in considerable
numbers in response to the call of opportunity
involved in the rapid industrial
development of sections no longer
wholly agricultural but devoted to
mining and manufacturing. This modification
, due to changing industrial
conditions, began and progressed dur-
ing the period of lynching which, as
pointed out, is a wholly modern phenomenon
as far as the South is concerned
. Not a red bar of anarchy or
lawlessness, as superficial observers
are in too great haste to conclude, but
a black bar of negro competition both
as slaves and as freemen has, in the
main, caused immigrants to turn
faces away from the Southern States their.
