MURDER AND LYNCHING IN AROOS
TOOK.
Our despatches have given an account
of a terrible murder committed in Aroos
took county. There were two victims,
both slain by one man, who afterwards
set the camp on fire in which the deed
was committed, probably to conceal his
crime. What led the murderer to do the
deed is not stated, nor have we full par-
ticulars of the manner in which it
consummated. The attack was
was
made while the murdered men were
asleep, and must have been a desperate
undertaking even then, since it appears
there were four persons in the camp at the
time, two of whom escaped.
But terrible as was the murder of the
two men, the hanging of the murderer
without trial, under the fierce impulse for
revenge created by the first knowledge of
the bloody tragedy, is an act for the most
profound regret and severe reprobation.
There is no decent apology whatever for
such an open defiance of law. The courts
of justice in all parts of this State, in
Aroostook as well as in southern counties,
are accessible to all, and the criminal
would have had to pay the penalty for his
deed which the law provides, even to
hanging had he been found guilty. How
much better is the act of the mob than that
of the murderer? They justify themselves
by pleading that the assassin deserved
death; he perhaps may have had real or
fancied wrongs which he believed a suffi-
cient justification for taking life. The law
of the mob is wicked and dangerous.
There is no limit to the evil which it may
inflict. No community with a proper re-
gard for the rights ef life and property,
where the courts are accessible, will re-
sort to lynching.
This act will be a blight upon Aroostook.
It will argue that the people are some-
what like those borderers upon the west-
ern wilds, little more civilized than Indians
, whose law is the knife and rifle,
and to whom the taking of human life is
an affair of no more consequence than the
killing of an ox or buffalo. It will avail
little to urge peace- loving and law- abiding
men to migrate to Aroostook for homes
if the county is to be overshadowed by
the idea that border notion of justice pre
vail there. We believe that but few in
the county will approve the act; that
most will regret and denounce it; and
trust the conclusion of the outside world
will be that it was the hasty act of the
rash few and not properly chargeable
upon the whole or fairly indicating a low
grade of civilization in the county
Aroostook. of
FURTHER PARTICULARS OF THE
MURDER AND LYNCHING
IN
AROOSTOOK.
The Whig and Courier gives the following
particulars of the murder and lynching in
Aroostook, that are additional to those given
in yesterday's Journal.
It seems that on Saturday night last, the
store of David Dudley at Presque, was broken
into, and a pair of boots and some other small
articles stolen. Circumstances
transpiring
which unmistakeably pointed to one James
Cullen, a native of New Brunswick, but a
resident of Mapleton for some two years past,
as the burglar, a warrant was sworn out and
placed in the hands of Granville A. Hayden
of Presque Isle, deputy sheriff, to be served.
Knowing Cullen to be a hard character, Mr.
Hayden took with him two men, Messrs. W.
H. Bird and Thomas Hubbard, and on Tuesday
morning started out to find their man.
They traced him to a shingle camp occupied
by a man named Swanbeck, in Chapman
plantation, which they reached late in the
evening. Cullen saw that open resistance
against so many would be useless, and sur
rendered himself without trouble, promising
to go with them peaceably, as he thought that
on returning matters might be satisfactorily
arranged with Mr. Dudley, whose store he
acknowledged breaking into. The hour was
late, and it being some four miles to Presque
Isle, over a hard woods road, the Sheriff and
his party concluded to remain in the camp until
morning, and accordingly arranged them
selves for the night as comfortably as they
could, and went to sleep, little thinking what
a terrible fate awaited three of the party.
Some time after midnight. Swanbeck and
Bird were awakened by a noise in the camp,
and on arousing themselves were horrified to
see Cullen chopping the heads of Sheriff Hayden
and Mr. Hubbard, with an axe he had
found in the camp. Being nearer the door
than the murderer, Swanbeck and Bird jump
ed up and ran for their lives, pursued for
some distance by Cullen, who, seeming to be
crazed by his infernal crime, brandished the
axe reeking with gore and yelled like a mad
man.
Neither of the escaping men were armed
and they made their way through the woods
to the settlements as best they could in the
darkness, to give the alarm. The word
spread like wildfire, and the community was
soon aroused by the terrible news A party
led by Mr. B. J. Hughes started from. Ball's
mill for the camp, which they found to be
a pile of smoking ashes, under which lay the
charred and shrivelled bodies of the deputy
sheriff and his companion, Cullen having ap
plied the torch after committing the awful
deed, in order to conceal the evidence of his
crime.
The most intense excitement was created
by the news, and several parties of men arm
ed themselves and started in pursuit of the
murderer. One party went directly to Cul
len's house in Mapleton, Wednesday morn
ing, but Mrs. Cullen declared her husband
was not in. Search was made, however, and
he was found secreted in the cellar. He was
dragged from his place of concealment, securely
bound, and his captors started to bring
him into Presque Isle. On their way they
were met by a party from that village, who
took possession of the prisoner, led him under
a tall tree, gave him a few minutes for prayer,
put a noose over his neck with a rope they
had brought with them, threw the other end
of the rope over a limb, and all taking hold,
strung him up and left him hanging until he
was dead.
The action of the lynchers is sustained by
the approval of a large portion of the community
in which the murdered men resided.
Steps are being taken to thoroughly investigate
the matter.
Mr. Hayden was a young man, much respected
and widely known. He had been in
business at Presque Isle for some years past,
and has had extensive transactions with several
firms in Bangor, all of whom bear testi
mony to his good qualities. He leaves a wife
and one young child.
Mr. Hubbard was a young man and un
married. He too bore an excellent reputation
and leaves many friends to mourn his
untimely death.
Cnllen, the murderer, had a wife and one
child, who, as before stated, reside in
Mapleton. we
