THREATS TO LYNCH A JURY,
A VERDICT THAT CAUSED BURPRISE,
INDIGNATION, AND RAGE
One of the Murderers of Kirk who lind Con
fessed Deelared Gality of Manslaughter
Only- An Angry Crowd Follow the Jurers.
CINCINNATI, March 24.- On Friday night,
Dec. 21, 1883, William Berner, a young Ger
man, and Joe Palmer, a negro, murdered Wil
liam H. Kirk, by whom they were employed, in
his own stable, in the very heart of the city.
They killed him with clubs late that afternoon,
and covered up his body until dark. They then
hired an express wagon, took the body out of
the city, and dumped it in Mill Creek. They
killed Kirk for money, and got about$ 100. On
their way out to hide the body Berner
got out of the wagon and told his folks
that he would be out late that night. On their
way back he carried a bucket of water from a
saloon to the negro Palmer, who washed the
blood stains from the express wagon After
.
taking the wagon home they went to a saloon
over the Rhine, and divided the money, Ber
ner afterward took his girl down town and
bought her$ 15 worth of jewelry, and went
around with her until quite late. On the day
following Berner went to the house auction,
where he was frequently seen with Kirk, and
some one said to him:
Berner, why isn't Kirk here? He is late
coming to- day."
" Oh, he is at his stable, I guess. I don't
know what is keeping him." replied Berner.
In the latter part of December, two days after
his arrest. Berner confessed his guilt to two or
three persons, but before his trial he recanted
his confession. His trial was begun a little
over two weeks ago. There was great difficulty
is getting a jury. After several days the follow
ing jury were obtained:
Samuel Edwards, a saloon keeper in Harrison; John
Wesley, a farmer: Francis Buck, a farmer: Edward
Henrie, a farmer: Michael McGuire, a gardener: Louis
Harmeyer, a clerk in Cincinnati: Henry Bohne, a cigar
maker in Cincinnati; Samuel Merrill, a fariner: Wesley
Skidmore, a farmer: Thomas Dollahan, a printer emi
ployed in Harrison; A. F. Shaw, a clerk now out of employment
, and son of Thomas F. Shaw, an old Cincin
hati merchant; and L. A. Phillips, a carpet cleaner.
Bernor's father had lands and money, and he
employed the three ablest criminal lawyers in
Cincinnati to defend his son. In the outset of
the case, by the advice of his attorneys, Berner
offered to plead guilty to murder in the second
degree, for which the only penalty in Ohio is
imprisonment for life. The State's Attorney
would not accept this plea, and the trial went
on. Judge Charles Matthews, brother of the
Hon. Stanley Matthews, heard the case. A
strong effort was made to rule out Berner's
confession, but without success. The arguments
were long, able, and exhaustive. All
that Berner's counsel hoped for was to save
him from hanging. The case was given to the
jury on Saturday night at 10 o'clock. They held
it two hours and were dismissed until to- day.
This morning early not only the court room
but the corridors near it were jammed with
people, who waited patiently for the verdict.
The jury sent in to ask the Court if they might
recommend mercy. Then the State's Attorney
romarked," We are gone; we are gone." Judge
Matthews said," I guess they will bring in a verdict
of murder in the second degree." Just then
came the announcement that the jury were
ready with their verdict. The court room was
80 packed that the bailiffs had difficulty in
clearing a way for the jurors. A dead silence
prevailed until the foreman read the following
words:
We, the jury, in the issue joined find the defendant,
Wm. Berner, not guilty of murder in the first degree,
but guilty of manslaughter.
Then a cry of surprise, mingled with expressions
of indignation and rage, burst from the
whole audience. Before a minute had passed,
the bailiff seized the prisoner and hurried him
behind the Judge's desk and took him through
the Judge's private room down the back stairs
and through the tunnel leading over into the
jall. The Court asked the prisoner's counsel if
they wished the jury polled. They said they
did. The same was asked of the prosecutors.
" No. sir." exclaimed Messrs. Pugh and
Thomas," we don't want any polling from that
jury.
it was not necessary to ask the Court what
he thought of the verdict. With an indignation
that he shared with hundreds of others around
him, he could not refrain from expressing
himself in an undertone in these words:" It's
a damned outrage." Without the customary
thanks to the jury for their faithfulness in do
ing their duty, he simply said:" The jury is
dismissed."
When the jurors left the room they were
hooted, and on the streets an enraged crowd
followed them with threats. Two of the jurors
had to be taken out through the jail tunnel.
The lynching of the four murderers in jail and
the Berner jury is suggested everywhere, to
night, and it is believed that there would be
but little resistance to a mob by the increased
force of guards in the jail building. Everybody
is advocating lynching, but there is no noisy
talk and no visible preparation for it. But
nobody would be surprised if the deed
done before morning. was
