Lynch Law in Indiana.
FOUR MEN HANGED BY A MOB- DESPERATE
STRUGGLE OF ONE OF THE VICTIMS.
A telegraphic dispatch in yesterday's
paper mentioned the hanging of four men
in Indiana by a vigilance committee.
The following particulars are taken from
the yesterday
papers of:
LOUISVILLE, Ky, December 12.- A
vigilance committee, said to hail from Seymour
, Indiana, arrived at New Albany,
Indiana, opposite this place, at 11 o'clock
last night. At three o'clock this morn
they proceeded to Floyd county jail
and demanded admission, which was re
fused by the jailor. He was, however
, soon overpowered The
and tied.
watchman was then compelled to open the
cells of the notorious express robbers, John,
Frank and Simon Reno and Charles Anderson
, who were immediately seized up
ou, and all four hang. Frank Reno fought
desperately for his life. The commit-
mittee returned on the seven o'clock train
this morning.
Frank Reno and Anderson bad but recently
arrived from Canada, where they
were tried under the extradition laws.
Indianapolis, Dec. 12.- All the telegraph
lines on the line of the Jeffersonville rail
road were found connected together and
fastened to the ground about half a miletion
north of Seymour this morning. It was
supposed to have been done by the Sey-
mour regulators before going to New Albany
to lynch the express robers.
Additional Particulars.
Louisville, Dec. 12- Additional
ticulars of the tragedy at New Albany par
have been received.
About 3 o'clock this morning Luther
Whitten, of the outside guards at the jail,
was met at the entrance by a party of men,
who presented pistols at him, demanding
silence or death. Whitten shouted, how
ever, but was seized, knocked down, and
imformed if another shout was uttered he
should die. By this time the jail office
was filled with men searching for the
keys.
Sheriff Fullenlove, understauding the
situation, came down from his sleeping
apartment, and gained the door leading to
the grounds on the west side of the jail.
Here he was met by a force, with pistols
directed at him. He exclaimed: Gentlemen
, don't shoot; I am the sheriff."
One of them, however, fired, the shot tak
ing effect in the right arm and inflicting a
painful wound. The keys were demand-
ed, but he positively refused to surrender
them.
About a dozen of the men then entered
Fullenlove's room, where his wife lay in
bed, and demanded the jail keys of her,
which she refused to give; but they found
them concealed in a drawer. Thomas
Matthews, of the inside guard, was compelled
to open the cells of the men the
mob had determined to hang. Frank
and Wm. Reno were the first victims.
They were dragged out and hung along
side of each other on the same pillars.--
Simon Keno was then brought out, but
he fought the mob with great desperation,
knocking one or two down before he was
over- powered, and left suspended between
the ceiling and the floor.
Charles Anderson was the last victim.
He was heard to beg for the privilege of
praying, but this request was refused, and
he was hung at the southwest corner of
the jail.
After further threats to kill the sheriff,
the mob proceeded to town, carrying with
then the jail keys. From the jail to the
train armed men stood guard to prevent
any alarm being given. At 4 o'clock the
train, with the entire party, consisting of
from seventy five to a hundred men, start
ed off.
They came well armed for the work.
They intended hang named
to a man
Clark, the murderer of General Tili, but
they concluded not to do so, fearing to
remain long The vigilants came from
Seymour, Indiana, in a car by themselves
attached to the regular train
Charles Anderson and Frank Reno were
surrendered by she Canadian authorities
upon the solemu pledge of the United
States government that they should have
a fair trial, if found innocent be re
turned to Canada and.
