SWIFT, TERRIBLE AND DESERVED.
1
OVER TWO THOUSAND CITIZENS PUNISH WITH
DEATH THE PERPETRATOR OF A BRUTAL OUT
RAGE ON A LADY.
[ BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.1
COAL VALLEY, W. Va., July 9, 1879.
A few days ago Clark Lee, a negro man, who has
figured to some extent in certain circles of colored
society in Richmond and who is probably well known
to Chastine Cox, committed a most atrocious assault
upon Mrs. Settle, wife of the County Treasurer of
Fayette county, W. Va. Mrs. Settle had the courage
to resist him, and before Lee could overcome
her he had broken one of her legs
and her collar bone and pulled out her
tonsils. The screams of the lady drew her children
to the room, and their outeries frightened off the
villain. The outrage, of course, occasioned great excitement
, and dozens of men, mounted and arined, set
out in pursuit of the fugitive. Fayette county is
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, and partly on in
Railroad, and partly in
the Kanawha Valley. The county is wild and rugged
and the mountaineers do not know the use of the
gallows. One has not been erected in that
section for years. Whenever such an offence
as this is committed the people" turn out,"
the constabulary" turn in," a sapling is selected
and lynch law in all of its merciless.promptness and
severity administered. Lee, knowing the peculiarity
of the West Virginians in this respect, fled for
dear life. By almost superhuman exertions and
after considerable suffering, he got as far as Parkers
burg.
JUST IN TIME.
There on Saturday last he was captured and the
Fayette authorities notified just in time to save the
life of another negro, believed to be Lee. who
was in the hands of a mob down in the county, and
who would otherwise have been hanged Monday.
In fact
& great crowd was already in
attendance awaiting the event. Lee was put under
the custody of an officer and sent from Parkersburg
to Huntington by an Ohio River steamer. His move
ments were well known, and upon his arrival at
Huntington he was met by about two hundred
men. These formed an escort for him
on his homeward trip. He was put upon
the Chesapeake and Ohio train at Huntington with
the ostensible purpose of being conveyed to Fayette,
but it was well understood that no judge or jury
would be required in his case. It is probable that
if he had made no admissions he might have
been taken to Mrs. Settle for identification; but he
got frightened out of his senses and confessed the
assault, and said that he desisted when the screams
of Mrs. Settle's children became so loud. This was
enough. It was determined that he should not live
another day.
NO MERCY.
At Coal Valley, which is a coal mining centre, Lee
was escorted from the train and met by a thousand or
more miners, who seemed to know the design of the
escorting party, and who were ready to co- operate
in avenging their outraged country woman. Lee was
taken by the mob, if so orderly and methodical
a party of West Virginia gentlemen can properly be
so designated, some distance from station and
hanged. It is said on one hand that the his prayers
hanged. It is said on one hand that his prayers
for mercy were piteous indeed, and that he be
sought the lynchers to do anything they might
with him, SO they left him life. On
the other hand, it is represented that after commend
ing his soul to the Almighty he bore himself with
the utmost indifference. The exact truth will prob
ably never be known to the great public, for the
people here, while among themselves are free
in their talk and justification of the affair,
are somewhat reticent in the presence of newspaper
men, but the long and short of the matter is, the
oftence was a most barbarous one, the punishment
was swift, terrible and deserved, and while there are
some who lament the necessity for the people taking
the law into their own hands, all agree that if ever
mob violence was pardonable at all it was so in this
instance. Lee's father and mother are said to
in Richmond, near the Jeff Davis mansion. reside
