HELPS WHITE RULING CLASS LYNCHERS?
WHAT OF A" NEGRO" NEWSPAPER THAT
BATERDAY DECCA 1999
The Pittsburg
Cars" PACE PIVE- PANY SECTIO
TUSKEGEE MUST TAKE STAND AGAINST' REDS'
SOUTHERN DAILY
EEK CHANGE OF
SCENE OF PHILLY MURDER
IN MEMORIAM Mid- Westam
LAYS UPRISING
VENUE
TO RADICALS
" Commeren Appe" Rates Com Gar
More The Irsching- Sers Tap
Farm Big Job
Leader In Negro
Advertise
Uprising Jailed
Cliff James Handed Over
To Sheriff By Officials
Of Tuskegee Institute
TUSKEGER, ALA., Dec. 22-( Spe
cial) -Cliff James, the negro at whose
home the Tallapoosa County disorder of
last Monday originated, is being held in
the Macon County jall whence he was
brought last night by officials of Tus
Leges Institute. Tonight he expressed
( Above) Headline in Pittsburgh Courier calling on the Tuskegee
Institute to carry out the drive of the Southern lynch bosses.
( Below, left) Headline in a Southern paper showing how Tuskegee
answered the call of the Pittsburgh Courier. Cliff James, refused medical
aid was allowed to die from his wounds in jail.
( Below, right) A typical lynching by the Southern boss class.
burgh Courier, that is, anxiety for the rule of its masters,
the white slave- drivers.
When the Southern ruling- class lynchers were mobilizing
all their forces to carry through the vicious lynch
verdicts against the nine innocent Scottsboro boys, the
Pittsburgh Courier was found on the side of the lynchers.
It d'rected its fire not against the Alabama ruling
class seeking to burn the boys in the electric chair, but
against the mass defense movement and its leader, the
Communist Party. It directly justified the lynch- action
against the boys with the provocative declaration:
" It is more likely, however, that if mobs break out
in Alabama and these eight boys are taken from the jail
and lynched it would probably be due to the nonsensical
activities of the Communists, who, by their misguided
energies, are finally driving the citizens of Alabama to the
point of desperation."
The poor lynchers whose aim is not to lynch the boys,
-Oh, no! -but whose intentions were noble and humane
are being driven to" desperation" by the vicious Communists
!
The Pittsburgh Courier is persistent in the defense
its white ruling- class masters. What was the attitude of
According to the Pittsburgh Courier and those it re
présents, the present vicious terror against the Negro
masses in the South is not an integral part of the whole
system of national oppression and its inevitable sharpen
ing in the present crisis, but is due to the vicious Communists
who are inciting the" ignorant" Negroes to rebel
against their good masters!
What is the essence of this hypocritical swindle of the
Negro reformists and social- fascists? It is that the capitalists
are to maintain their wholesale violence against the
Negro masses without the resistance of these masses. Not
against the increasing, daily violence or the Bourbon dictatorship
, but against the resistance of the masses to this
violence: this, is the core of Negro reformism in the pre
sent period of rising class and Negro liberation struggles
This it has in common with social- fascism..
of the Pittsburgh Courier during the bloody events of December
19, in Tallapoosa County, Alabama? When the
Alabama landlords and their sheriffs, aided by their" Un
cle Toms," the Negro lackeys of Tuskegee Institute, were
trying to smash the growing struggles of the Negro share
croppers and exploited farmers against starvation and
oppression, when the press was doing everything in its
power to incite lynch violence against the Negro toilers,
the Courier again intervened on the side of" lynch law
and order." cairied a headline reading:" Tuskegee
Must Fight Reds It."
The Daily Worker has to depend upon not the rich,
but the poor to support it. Not the capitalists and the
landlords who incite lynching and frame up innocent Ne
gro boys in order to perpetuate a system of slavery- but
the slaves themselves are depended upon to support
Daily Worker. the
