Fight Lynching! Attend the Anti- Lynch Rally At Rockland Palace on Sunday
Scottsboro Boys and for Anti Lynch- Struggles!
Trade Union Unity League Sounds Call to Save
To all Unions affiliated to the Trade Union Unity League.
To all Unions affiliated to the American Federation of Labor.
To all Independent Unions.
To all Organized and Unorganized Workers.
Brothers:
THE trial of the nine Scottsboro boys is now going on in Decatur,
bama. Although it has been proven conclusively that nine Negro
boys are innocent of the crime with which they are charged, the white
lynch rulers of the South are determined that they shall be legally
lynched by the government of Alabama. Not only that there is every
evidence that the ruling class is organizing mobs to lynch the Negro
boys during or immediately after the trial. This trial, like the increased
lynchings that have taken place in the last years and more so in the
last months, is a brutal attempt on the part of the ruling class to stop
the rising struggles of the Negro tollers in the country over, and especially
in the South, against the increasing impoverishment and exploit
ation of the Negro tollers that is accompanying the ever deepening of
the economic crisis.
Not only the ruling class in the South, but the whole ruling class
and the Roosevelt government are responsible for this growing lynch
terror. This terror is part of the growing reaction that is being developed
all over the country against all workers, Negro and white, and the
workers militant organizations. Only the united struggle of the white.
and Negro toilers can successfully resist the terror and lynch campaign
that is developed by the capitalists throughout the country. Only such
a united struggle can defeat the increasing attacks on the white and
Negro workers. The struggles of the Negro toilers and the capitalist
attack against the Negro masses is inseparable from and is a part of the
sharpening struggles between the exploiters and exploited the country
over.
leaders of the American Federation
THE of Labor, through their discrimination
against Negro workers in the trade unions, through
chauvinist policies and through their refusal to take up the fight for their the
Taking Them to the Lynch Court
A group of officers taking the Scottsboro boys from their cells in the
Decatur jail to the courtroom where District Attorney Knight and Judge
Callahan are attempting to railroad, them to xecution.
freedom of the Scottsboro boys, and against the increased lynchings,
share with the whole capitalist class and the capitalist government the
responsibility for the bloody lynch terror. They speak of fascist reaction
in Hitler Germany but are themselves carrying through and condone
the same Hitler policies in the United States.
We call upon all workers to rally to the defense of the Scottsboro
Workers in the A. F. of L. unions
boys. To fight the lynch terror.
pass resolutions of protest demanding the unconditional release of the
Scottsboro boys. Go on record for and fight for equal rights for the
Negro masses. Fight against all discrimination against Negro workers
in the trade unions. Fight for equal pay for equal work for all Negro
workers in the North and South. For the right of the Negro workers to
all jobs in all industries.
Workers in the T.U.U.L. and militant independent unions- make your
organizations an example of full equality for all Negro toilers. Increase
your struggles for the demands of the Negro toilers. Increase your
recruiting of Negro workers into your organizations. Organize mass
meetings to protest and mobilize the masses in your industry and city
for the demand for immediate and unconditional release of the nine
Scottsboro boys. Let your organizations be the first to raise funds to
carry on an effective defense and struggle for the freedom of the Scotts
boro boys.
Workers, Organized and Unorganized, Negro and white, join together
everywhere for the fight for the freedom of the Scottsboro boys, against
lynchings, for full rights to the Negro people. Contribute yourself and
through your organizations to the Defense Fund to free the Scottsboro
boys. There is no time to be lost. We need your support and we need
it at once.
Send all funds to: International Labor Defense, Room 430-799
Broadway, New York City.
NATL. EXEC. TRADE UNION UNITY LEAGUE
BOARD JACK STACHEL, Acting Secy.
