LYNCH LAW KANSAS.
How an Innocent Man was Hung
by a Mob.
[ Leavenworth Correspondence of the Cincin-
cinnati Commercial.]
Many of the oldest citizens of Illinois
will remember Thomas Ford, one of the
old lawyers of that state, who was elected
governor some time back in
Gov. Ford was reckoned one of the big
men of the state, albeit he was possessed
of an overweening modesty that retarded
his advancement and kept him poor.
When he died he left a number of child-
ren and no property, excepting a history
of Illinois, in manuscript. This, Gen.
James Shields, a former United States
senator from Illinois, now a resident of
Missouri, had published, and the pro-
ceeds were divided among the children
.
The children were adopted by different
citizens, the youngest, Thomas, with
whom we have to do in this sketch, be
ing adopted by the late Hon. Thomas E.
Moore, of Peoria, Ill., and assumed that
gentleman's name.
Tom Moore, as he was called. like that
other Tom Moore, had a rare mind. He was
fond of poetry. Shakspeare especially,
and eagerly devoured history, travels, romances
, or anything that came in his way.
Mr. Moore was at that time quite wealthy,
though very plain and unostentations.
He resided in the country near Peoria,
and Tom grew up hardy of limb, and
with a strong mental nature. There
was about him a liberal carelessness
which, while betokening future misfortune
for himself, was not displeasing to
his friends and companions.
Tom served in the 139th
try, and there made many friends and
was accounted a good soldier. Upon his
return he entered the artillery service,
and did good duty there for a year.
Then he returned to Peoria, and for a
short time was engaged in writing squibs
for The Transcript, the leading paper in
Peoria.
In the fall of 1871, young Ford or
Moore( he always wrote his
Thomas Ford Moore) became dissatisfied
with Peoria, and determined to go to
the far west to seek his fortune. His
older brother was somewhere in the vicinity
of Wachita. Kan .. and thither
Tom shaped his course, and arrived in
due time. For a number of months Tom
and his brother wandered up and down
the plains of Kansas, now joining a
hunting party for the west, now helping
to bring huge droves of Texas cattle
from the south. Sometimes he was in
company with his brother, at other times
he went alone. The wild, free life was
well suited to his nature, and he passed a
pleasant time, but did not appear to be
amassing a fortune very rapidly.
At this time excitement was running
unusually high in regard to horse- steal
Missing. As our readers well know, new
countries suffer more from this crime than
the more settled portions, and in the
spring and summer of 1872 there had
been many depredations in southern
Kansas.
It was near the close of a beautiful day
in July that young Ford for the first
time approached State Creek ranch, situated
in Sumner county, near the town.
of Caldwell. He had walked all day.
coming from the southeast, and looked
forward with joyful anticipations to the
rest and food he should obtain at the
ranch, previous to pushing on to Caldwell,
six miles further, whither he was bound.
Just before reaching the ranch he became
cognizant of the fact that two men were
following him, but he had a revolver,
and supposing if the men interfered with
him it would be for the purpose of robbery
, he had no fears of them.
He soon arrived at the ranch, where he
, refreshed himself with meat and drink,
for half an hour, and then started for
Caldwell. His journey lay through a
woods of scattered trees and abundant
brush. He had gone scarcely a mile
when three men suddenly sprang upon
him from a hazel copše. So sudden
was the attack that he had no time to
- draw a weapon, no time to make any defense
.
The three men were quickly joined by
three others, and the leader informed
. their captive that he was exceedingly
a happy to have succeeded in capturing
him
so easily." For," said he," we
have been watching you for several hours
- past." Tom inquired for what they had
arrested him. At first he could get no
satisfaction, but at length he was in
formed that he was arrested for horse
stealing.
of
The horror of his sitnation then forced
of itself upon the young man. He realized
- that he was in the hands of a mob who
knew no law but that of Judge Lynch,
in whose court they were jurors, judge,
witnesses, attorneys, and executioners.
Though a thousand times innocent, he
knew he would die if he could not fully
convince these men of his innocence. He
knew that some of the loudest and most
active of these vigilantes were the real
horse- thieves, who would not hesitate to
hang an innocent man to divert suspic
- ion from their guilty selve dand
not present party were of that
number he would certainly
of They asked him his name, and he told
them Thomas Moore, and then informed
them that he was the son of Thomas
Ford, former governor of Illinois." How
can your name be Moore, then," said the
leader, if you are the son of a governor
named Ford?" The young man, amid
. the shout of derision that followed, at
tempted to explain. He was dragged
along." Shut up your cackle," says a
. burly ruffian, striking him in the face
with his tist.
A rope was here brought into view.
- Take him to yonder tree," said the
, leader.
" My God! gentlemen," protested the
anfortunate youth, are you going to
hang me upon bare suspicion? Before
God I am innocent of crime, and if you
will give me time and opportunity, I can
prove it."
We have all the proof we want," sald
the leader. If you've got any prayers to
say, make them short, for we have so
many of you fellows to attend to that we
haven't much time to give each of you."
" In God's name, men, is there no
chance for life? Must I die like a dog
for nothing? Give me some chance for my
life, and if you will take it, don't murder
me in such a cowardly manner
11
.'
Vain were the words of the poor boy:
They attempted to bind him, but with all
the young strength of a well- built frame,
intensified and augmented by despera
, tion, he threw them off. Again, and
again they threw themselves upon him,
but in his despair he hurled them from
him. But what must be the result of this?
What could be the only result? They
were six to one. He was exhausted, over
powered, thrown down, and his hands
and feet securely bound. Then a rope
being passed over the fork of a tree, and
the other end placed about his neck, he
was asked if he had any confession to
make.
" No," said he," my chief consolation
in this moment of my death is that I am
- innocent. I never stole a horse. I was
ever in this neighborhood before. You
. doubt my stories. I have letters in my
pocket to prove that I am who I say I
For
We'll hang you first and look at your
letters afterward," shouted one of the
, ruffians. Pull away, boys, and let's get
- away with this business."
" Oh, give him a minute to pray," said
the leader." Here, young man, you
may have two minutes to pray in, but
make' em short."
The rope was slacked up, and the
doomed boy fell upon his knees and en
gaged in silent prayer. Who can say-
what agonizing utterances that prayer
contained? Who knows but the record
ing angel, with one stroke of his pen.
there balanced poor Tom's account with
heaven!
The two minutes over, the cruel hands
at the other end of the rope pulled it
taut, and with another jerk the poor in
nocent youth was dangling between
heaven and earth For a moment he
.
hung quietly, and then began those terri
ble contortions that attend those who are
slowly strangled to death. A few
ments and the dark transaction was done mo.
The spirit of Tom Moore, with all its
wealth of love and kindness, all its generosity
of soul, its genius and talent, its
aspirations, hopes, joys, fears and sor
rows had flown, and the blackened corpse
lying there beneath the tree was all that
was left of the youngest and favorite son
of the governor of Illinois.
After he was dead, the men examined
his poekets, and found letters and papers
proving his identity, and also proving his
innocence. The villains had literally
hung their man first and heard his defense
afterward. One of them expressed
the fear that they had been engaged in a
bad bad mob mob.. The The fiets facts of of the the murder murder came came
out, nearly or quite as above detailed, and
occasioned little feeling in the vicinity
. no
