ANOTHER OUTRAGE.- The details of a shock-
ing outrage in an adjoining county, which we
give to- day, should enlist the feelings of every
citizen in behalf of the safety of female inno-
nocence from these black demons. While we
are no advocate of lynch law, we think there
are cases of this kind, when no doubt exists as
to guilt, which would justify the people in
taking summary vengeance upon the
perpetrators. hellish
The magistrate then gave the accused in
charge of three armed men, and warned them
not to allow any violation, of the law to take
place upon the prisoner. The guard and
prisoner proceeded to Odenton, arriving there
about 8 o'clock, just as the morning train had
left for Annapolis. On this train were a num
ber of officials of the State, among them Gov.
Groome, Treasurer Compton, and Hon. A. P.
Gorman, also John P. Poe, and Benjamin
Fawcett, Esqs. The train had gone about one
hundred yards from the station when Hon.
Barnes Comptom, seeing the guards and their
prisoner, announced in emphatic language
to Governor Groome that they had the brute
""
now."
Governor Groome, knowing that there
would be an immediate case of lynching if he
was left at Odenton, ordered the brakeman to
stop the train. The brakeman said he did not
like to do it without the consent of Captain
Brown. The Governor told him to go for
ward and see the conductor, the Governor
following, when both came up to Mr. Brown
and the Governor desired him to stop the
train, explaining the reason. Mr. Brown de-
murred, but the Governor insisted that there
would be a mob and lynching if the man was
not taken on the train, and he( the Governor)
I would stand between the conductor and
the
company, and, as executive of the State, he
ordered the train to go back. Brown
replied if he took that stand he Capta.n would obey.
The prisoner was taken before Justice Elijah
C. Jackson, a half- brother of the victim, who
was also summoned as
her assailant. She testified to the fact of the
outrage and the personal violence she had sustained
. The prisoner did not deny any of the
accusations. He seemed rather to give an im
plied in
regusion was proved to be the one he had stolen
from the young lady's father on the morning
the outrage. Miss
of arks of the negro's fingers on both sides of
her throat, where he had choked her breath-
the She did not know
he had the gun, and when she recovered
went back to the house and told her sister
what had occurred. The sister ran immediately
for her father's gun, which had been re
moved. This was the weapon found with the
prisoner and identified. The girl was agita
ted during the investigation, and the magistrate
, her half- brother, was also greatly embarrassed
, but he would not allow any
lence against the prisoner. vio
Outrage in Anne Arundel County.
A fiendish outrage was perpetrated in the
fourth election district of Aune Arundel coun
ty, Md., near Odenton station, on the Balti
more and Potomac railroad, last Saturday, by
a negro man named John Sims, upon the per
son of Miss Addie Jackson, daughter of Johr.
Jackson, an old citizen of that section, which
created great excitement and indignation in
neighborhood, and much sympathy for the
the victim and her family. The locality of the
