Butchery Human.
One of the most barbarous cases of
butchery which we have ever been
called upon to record occured at
Rezende, province of Rio Janeiro, on the
30th of March. A planter of that
vicinity, named Jose Maria da Costa,
had been killed by some of his slaves
a few days previous, and three of them
were lodged in jail at Rezende. On
the morning of the 30th a mob of
some five hundred armed men entered
the town, surrounded the jail, and demanded
the delivery of the assassins.
The guard, composed of an officer and
eight soldiers, demurred, when a shot
was fired which slightly wounded the
officer. The guard immediately fled.
The keys were next demanded of the
jailer, who at once delivered them up.
The mob then entered the jail, crying:
Kill the assassins!" and threw themselves
upon the three helpless slaves.
Pistol- shots, blows of bill- hooks, and
knife- thrusts followed in quick succes-
sion. Two the slaves were killed
outright, while the third lived some
three hours. The butchers then
dragged the two dead slaves out into
the open square, where they mangled
their bodies in the most inhuman maa-
ner- cutting of their ears, slashing
their heads and faces with hatchets
and knives and other fiendish
every
outrage that their savage impulses
,
could devise. One of the bodies was
literally cut in twain with hatchets.
A more savage, remorseless butchery
never occurred. The mob then
paraded the streets, giving cheers for
justice," for the liberal and con-
servative parties," for" order" and
law," and God knows what else! A
more shameless burlesque on the institutions
of civilized society was never
acted even by savages! Let it be understood
that we have no defense for
the three assassins, nor for any others
who are guilty of crimes of this character
.
But when we consider how
much of crime there is on every side.
and how frequently the slave assassins
have been bought, literally bought in
courts of justice, by their masters to
save them from being sent to Fernando
de Noronha on account of their pecuni
value when think of all this
ry we
we can not help crying out against this
monstrous injustice of butchering three
helpless slaves in the Rezende jail sim
ply and for no other reason than that
the planters are infuriated with the
progress of abolition and have resolved
to meet it by. If this is their intention
, then force there are sorry times in
