Rally for Unity of Black
and White
EPORTS from Shelbyville, Tennessee,
RE
indicate a town crazed with lynch hysteria
and violence against the Negro
population.
The savagery of the mob is a terrible re
minder that lynch terrorism and violence are rising
rapidly against the Negro masses throughout the
South. This terrorism is not something apart from
the general increase in violence against the whole
working class. It is an intensified part of this rising
fascist reaction whose source is none other than the
capitalist state with the Roosevelt administration
at its head.
Three lynch leaders were actually killed and several
others wounded by shots fired into the mob
by National Guardsmen, and Lieutenant- Colonel
John R. Stark, in command of the troops, hastens
to assure the lynchers that" every shot that was
fired by the guardsmen was fired in self- defense."
It would be a pitiful illusion to imagine that the
sending of troops was an act in defense of the Negro
prisoner or the Negro people. The mob was allowed
to wreak its fury on the Negro section of the town,
firing a Negro hotel and indiscriminately beating up
men, women and children. The unrestrained fury
of the mob in its attack on the guardsmen and the
courthouse was more than the lynch- inciting press
had bargained for.
The only reason that the troops were ordered to
fire on the lynchers was that the bloodthirstiness
and savagery of the mob had reached such un
bridled fury that the whole prestige of the govern
ment as well as the interests of property had be
come involved. There is no doubt at all that the
capitalist court would have carried through a swift
and merciless legal lynching of the framed Negro.
What the mob wanted was a speedier and more
gruesome murder. And this is the only difference
between the court and the lynch mob. It was the
" dignity of the law" that was protected- the Negro
quarters were left completely at the mercy of the
mob.
Proof that the" protection" demanded against
the mob was not a protection in the interests of
the Negro population is given by the latest reports
from Shelbyville, which tell of the proposed forma
tion of" vigilante" committees of the best citizens"
to" restore the processes of the law." This is the
capitalist law used against the entire working class
and to rush innocent Negroes to a swift, legal
murder.
It is the Roosevelt government, it is the whole
state apparatus of the capitalists, with their schools
and press, that spills lynch poison and incitement
into the minds of the white toilers to cover up the
slavery and oppression that pauperizes black and
white. Does not the Roosevelt A. A. A. incite lynch
terrorism against the Negro croppers in the South?
Do not the N. R. A. codes fasten the chains of national
oppression through differential wage scales?
The increasing miseries of the crisis are being
used by the capitalists and landlords to incite the
hungry against the hungry, the oppressed against
the oppressed, the white against the black. It is
only in the unity of black and white, of the working
class and all oppressed groups that the chains
wage slavery and national oppression can be broken of.
