TROOPS FIRED ON THE MOB.
Urbana, O., Mob Lynches a Negro After
Troops Kill Two Citizens.
" Click" Mitchell, a colored man who
assaulted Mrs. T. M. Gaumer at Ur
bana, O., was brought before that lady
and readily identified. When his guilt
became known about the town a large
crowd surrounded the jail and threatened
to lynch Mitchell. The militia
was called out and placed on guard at
the courthouse and jail and Mitchell
had to be smuggled through the
crowds to the courthouse disguised in
a soldier's uniforin. The assaulter
plead guilty and was immediately
given the extreme limit of the law- 20
years' imprisonment, the hearing last
ing but a few minutes. When the
crowd realized that they had been
foiled there was tremendous excite
ment among the 1,500 people on the
streets, but it was not until nearly 2
o'clock in the morning that an attempt
was made to do any violence and then,
as a rush was made toward the jail
the militia opened fire, and at the first
volley killed two citizens- Harry Bell
and Upton Baker- and seriously
wounded seven or eight more.
When the results of the firing be
came known the local militia refused
to act further and the sheriff wired the
governor for more troops. The Spring
field Guards were ordered out and ar
rived at 7:10 a. m. The mob steadily
increased and hundreds of women
The
urged the men on. mob was constantly
abusing the troops and pelting
them with mud, so that the situation
finally became so strained that another
clash and the sacrifice of many lives
was feared. This led Mayor Ganson
to order the guards to return to the
depot, but no sooner had they gone
than the mob made an attack the
upon
jail in force. Inside of three minutes
they had a rope around Mitchell's neck
and were leading him out, but as they
came down the steps Mitchell slipped
and fell. In an instant the crowd was
upon him kicking and pounding him,
but the rope was soon readjusted and
the assaulter was swung up to a tree
while hundreds of people of all
witnessed the spectacle. classes
