Suspected Murderer Lynched.
Wednesday night near Bryan, Texas,
while gambling, a negro named Chetham
was stabbed and killed. Another negro,
Tom Sweet, was arrested for the crime.
While being conveyed to town he
taken from his guards and strung up. was
WORK OF A MOB.
Three Indians Are Lynched in North
Dakota.
Twenty- five masked men took the law
into their own hands Sunday morning at
the county jail in Williamsport, Emmons
County, North Dakota. They left the
bodies of three men, who had been accused
of murder, swaying in the wind as a
testimonial of the completeness of their
revenge. The men were Paul Holytrack,
Philip Ireland and Alec Coudot, Indians,
who were under arrest accused of the
murder of six members of the Spicer fam
ily last winter at Winona, Enimons Coun
ty. They were aroused from slumber,
dragged from the jail to a beef windlass
that stood near the jail, and were hanged.
to a bar that served to suspend the carcasses
of slaughtered animals.
Williamsport is a little hamlet forty
miles from a railroad, and not over fifty
persons reside there. The jail where the
victims of the lynching were confined is
a stone structure and was guarded by a
solitary jailer, Thomas Kelly, who was
aroused by a light tap on the outer door
of the jail. Thinking that it was a sum
mons from some of his friends, who were
accustomed to call at night to talk with
him, he opened the door, to give entrance
to a mob of masked men, who presented a
revolver at his head and demanded that
he open the door to the cells in which the
prisoners were confined. Kelly saw it
was useless to resist and opened the doors
and the three men were dragged from
their beds, ropes were fastened about
their necks and they were hauled from.
the cells into the open air.
No ceremony was wasted on the victims
. The beef windlass stood near and
this was made to serve the purpose of a
gibbet. Two of the men were partly un
conscious from the effects of the dragging,
but their bodies were speedily raised into.
the air and the three forms were left to
dangle in the moonlight.
The crime for which the men were
thus executed by the mob was the murder
of six members of the Spicer family, near
Winona, last winter. The bodies of
Thomas Spicer, his wife, his daughter,
Mrs. Rouse, and her twin children, and
of Mrs. Ellen Waldron, his mother- in
law, were found at the Spicer home, all
horribly mutilated. Paul Holytrack and
Philip Ireland, two of the men who were
lynched, had already eonfessed having
assisted in the murders. Their narrative
was so revolting as to arouse indignation
to fever heat. The confession of the two
implicated Coudot, the third of the victims
. Fear that the men would escape
for their crime led to the
lynching punishment.
