EXTRA. NYE'S BILL
It Was Abous a Hanging and Was Very
Popular In Laramie.
The last time Bill Nye was in Chicago,
shortly before his death, I asked him how
he happened to choose the wilds of Wyoming
as an inviting field for humor.
" Why, bless your heart, I didn't," he
said." I didn't go out to Wyoming to be
funny. I went to Laramie to get rich and
got away again just as soon as I could. In
the meantime I tried humor simply in self
defense. Laramie was one of those towns
that never are- but always are about to be
-blest. When I arrived, I found a mush
room mining town. The population consisted
of cowboys, Mexicans, rustlers, half
breeds, Chinamen and speculative riffraff.
The whole place was sizzling with excite
ment, and I felt sure that Laramie was to
become a second Chicago and Wyoming a
new El Dorado. What little money I had
mining claims. But I fancied I
went into
had a longer head than the average speculator
and decided to establish some solid
business. I started a paper. I hoped that
in time, as the city grew into metropolitan
proportions, my weekly would blossom
out into a great influential daily, and in
fancy I saw myself the Pulitzer of the
west. But the lead of ore played out and
the town instantly collapsed. Those who
had enough money to get out of Laramie
did so. Those who had not staid. I remained
.
" I hung on to the paper in the hope that
I could sell it some time. But no purchaser
came my way. The motley crowd of
stranded speculators left behind by the
boom could not support a paper, and, in
fact, a large proportion of them couldn't
read anyway. There was no news. Every
little occurrence was seized upon eagerly,
and I spun it out as far as I could to fill up
my paper. A dog fight any time was good
for a column. At last in desperation I be
gan writing humorous sketches merely to
fill up with. Of course I had no circulation
, but I sent the paper to every leading
journal in the country, and in a short time
my stuff began to be copied. That was the
beginning of the end.
" At one time, I remember, we had a
hanging scheduled. Of course we often
had little informal, impromptu hangings,
but this one was to be a real, genuine, legal
execution. A half drunken miner had shot
down a saloon keeper without the slightest
provocation. There was no doubt about
the fellow's guilt. He admitted it himself.
Ordinarily he would have been lynched
right away, but several of us talked the
matter over and decided that the murderer
ought not to be wasted. We would use him
as an advertisement. We held that a legal
execution would be a good card for the
town and would show the world at large
that Laramie was not a wild, lawless place,
but a law abiding city, with established
courts and officials to enforce the law properly
.
The murderer himself was mightily
pleased with the idea. He relished the notoriety
it would give him, and immediately
became the prcudest man in town. There
was no jail. Laramie in those days didn't
need one Lawbreakers never
anyway.
were fed at public expense. They were
lynched or given notice to get out of town.
Court was held in the rear room of a grocery
. A jury was sworn in, and everything
was done as nearly according to law as
possible. The prisoner was sentenced to
hang, and the day of execution was fixed
for the following Friday. I raised an objection
to this and pointed out to the court
that I would require more time in order to
get up a creditable newspaper account of
the affair in a special edition which was to
be sent broadcast to advertise the town. So
the hanging was postponed for a week to
suit the exigencies of my printing establishment
.
" I went right to work on the special
boom edition- wrote up a history of the
man who was murdered, gave a sketch of
the murderer, printed the judge's charge
in full and gave special write ups to every
member of the jury and to all others who
had taken part in the trial in any way.
Then I gave an elaborate account of the
hanging itself, told how the prisoner look
ed, gave his dying speech on the gallows,
described the scene when the drop fell and
ended with the results of the post mortem
examination.
" Only one thing really bothered me- I
wanted to illustrate the affair, and there
wasn't a cut of any sort within hundreds
of miles. After worrying about the matter
for some time I decided to do a little wood
engraving on my own account. I took a
piece of hardwood plank, planed it down
type high, and with a chisel cut out a
man's face as nearly as I could. This I
placed in the middle of the first page, with
a line under it stating that it was a' por
trait of the murderer.' Beyond any question
that was the oddost specimen of the
engraver's art ever turned out in America.
The head had more angles than a geometry
ever described; the eye was a three cornered
white spot made with the corner of
the chisel, and the forehead was covered
with bumps which would have given a
phrenologist spasms. But it went all
right. The old rickety press was slow, and
I had to run off the editorial ahead of
time. It was printed and piled away in a
rear room waiting for the appointed day
to come.
" In the meantime the murderer was
about town as usual, except that he was
drunker than ordinarily, because every one
seemed to feel it an honor to drink with a
man who was so soon to be the center of
popular interest. Whenever he could walk,
he went strutting about town like a pes
cock.
" Two days before the hanging somebody
learned that my boom edition was printed,
and immediately the office was besieged by
citizens who wanted to see the paper. At
first I refused, but soon the crowd began
to offer a bonus for the paper, and I found
I could sell out then and realize just as
much as I could by waiting, so I took in
the cash and let the papers go. They went
like hot cakes. The murderer himself was
among the first to get a copy, and, although
he couldn't read, he seemed greatly inter
ested in the woodcut. He came into the
office to assure himself that there was no
mistake about it, and I told him it was all
right- the picture was his- and read him
the line under it.
" That night he disappeared. There was
no hanging on Friday, and Laramie never
saw him again."- Frank S. Pixley in
cago Times- Herald. Chi
