AUGUSTA IN ARMS.
Marshall Harris, of Summerville, Killed by
a Negro in Augusta.
Augusta, Ga., October 2 .-( Special.)
Marshal of Police Bob Harris, of the vil
lage of Summerville, Augusta's pretty suburb
two miles from the city, on the Sand
hills, was seriously shot and probably fa
tally wounded by Henry Ramsay, a negro,
about 3 o'clock this afternoon.
Ramsay had been beating his wife and
when Marshal Harris went to arrest him,
Ramsay would not surrender. He resisted
and in his fight with the officer he shot Mr.
Harris in the face with a gun.
Ramsay lives in Watkin's row, near Mr.
Harris's house. He went over about noon
in a sullen mood and because his wife had
washed her own clothes and had not cleaned
his he got angry and took a tub of soot and
mixed it with water and threw it all over
his wife's clothes, ruining them.
The woman was enraged and brick- batted
her husband and struck him with a chair
for his outrageous conduct.
Ramsay flew into a fit of passion after
being assaulted. He pitched in and flogged
his wife. The woman ran out of the house
and started for Harris's house to get the
officer to protect her from her infuriated
husband. Ramsay overtook his wife in the
road before she could reach Marshal Harris's
and he made her return hom.
Policeman, Harris heard the disturbance
and went over to Ramsay's house and after
hearing the stories of both parties told
Ramsay he was under arrest and ordered
him to come out of the house.
refused to go. He
Ramsay positively
backed into his room, got his gun from be
hind the door and as Mr. Harris advanced
toward him Ramsay pulled up his gun
and fired at a distance of about five feet.
Harris's Face Horribly Mutilated
The contents of one barrel of No. 5 shot
entered Mr. Harris's face. The whole of his
face below the nose was torn away, teeth
were shot out, both the upper and the lower
jawbones were ploughed out and the tongue
cut. Nothing of flesh or bones below the
Dose remain d
Ramsay claims that Harris first struck
him over the head with a club and was
coming towards him with a cocked pistol
when he fired.
Ramsay was caught by Policeman Leo
pard, as he was trying to escape through
Harrisburg to the Carolina shore, on the
other side of the river.
Doctors Wright and Ford are attending
the wounded officer, whose condition is precarious
, and they are apprehensive of secondary
hemorrhage, which will cause death.
People are greatly excited over this outrageous
attempt at murder and there is
some talk that the negro should be lynched,
but it is not believed that Judge Lynch
will sit upon the case, but the law will
Many are inclined to con
take iis course.
sider Ramsay's dastardly conduct as the
natural result of the teachings of Tom
Watson in his almost maddening efforts to
gain votes.
Police Guarding the Jail.
Later- A strong detail of police armed
with Marlin repeating rifles are now guard
ing the jail.
Beginning to Look Squally.
Augusta, Ga., October 2- Midnight .-( Spe
cial.)- The latest news is that lynchers are
quietly organizeing on the outskirts of the
city and will attack the jail between 1 and
3 o'clock. The guard at the jail has been
reinforced and the prisoner will be given
every protection if an effort is made to take
him from the authorities. The mayor, military
officers and many citizens are at this
hour at police headquarters awaiting the
latest news. Many people are on the streets
talking about the shooting and there is no
apparent excitement, but the danger dreaded
is from those who are said to be congregating
on the outskirts.
Marshal Harris Is Dead.
Marshal Harris died at about 12 o'clock.
Mayor Alexander has just wired Governor
Northen asking him to issue orders to Colo
nel I. C. Levy, of the First Georgia battalion
, authorizing him to order out his
infantry companies. Anticipating a favorable
reply, the companies are now assembling
at their armory.
The Mob Disperses.
Augusta, Ga., October 3, 2:10 a. m.
( Special.) At 2 o'clock the peace and good
order citizens succeeded, after talking to
mob, in getting the crowd to disperse
and the give up ide of lynching
