Frankfort Riot and Murder.
To the Editor of the Cincinnati Gazette: a
Of the case of lynch law and execution
which occurred in Frankfort
on the night of the 29th ult., I pro
pose to relate the circumstances as
they came to the understanding of
one present, but having nothing to do
with the matter. I have no interest
or sympathy with any party convicted,
except such as is prompted by humanity
, law, and the good name of
the Commonwealth. I hope the
statements here made will not be
censured as being ex parte, since the
proceedings in this case have been
pushed violently beyond the law, and
out of reach of legal investigation, at
least so far as the victim is concerned;
inand, not only so, other statements
have been published which are ob
noxious to such an objection.
rape and murder, is on a bare,
steep hill- side above the railroad tun
nel, along which passes a nariow
foot- path toward the cemetery. Below
, and parallel to this path, is the
railroad, on the track of which a man
was at work not far off; still below,
at the bank within a stone's throw,
are several coal boats which men
were unloading; on the opposite side
of the river, in speaking distance, are
houses occupied. At the spot, and
for some distance either way, there is
not an obstruction to the view. The
occurrence was a short time after four
in the evening. The man on the rail
track had noticed the girl passing; he
looked again and missed her, nor had
there been time for her to pass out of
his view. He was surprised, and
looking about, discovered her on the
track near the tunnel, where she had.
fallen. One can hardly imagine a
fiend so reckless as to attempt, in day
light, criminal conduct even without
opposition, in such a place exposed to
the view and hearing of so many par
ties; and that a horrid struggle could
then and there have transpired with
out notice, is strange indeed.
But unless it were by the sternest
employdemands of justice, feelings would not
allow us to disparage the poor girl's
account. In her pitable condition, it
seems almost sacreligious to question.
But these reflections arise as reasons
why rigid and careful investigations,
such as law and impartial justice
alone can secure, should be had in all
cases, especially in view of irreconcilable
circumstances.
When consciousness returned to
the unfortunate girl, about thirty- six
hours after she was taken up, she told
of her violent usage and named a boy
who had perpetrated the crime. This
boy had been formerly known to her,
and when brought before her she said
he was the criminal. Her visitors say
professhe is not yet, three days later, at all
The negro was lodged in jail. A
short time after dark about twenty
five men- mostly Irish- appeared at
the jail and demanded the keys.
it Failing to get them, they proceeded
to batter down the doors and walls.
They were about two hours getting
in, during which time the heavy
blows of their sledges and bars re
sounded through the streets and alleys
, and in the offices and parlors
the State Canital. of
Statements have been published
about the futile efforts at intervention
by the Governor, Assistant Adjutant
General, and the Mayor, which
I will not contradict; but I will say
,
for myself and others, who were anxious
for the supremacy of the law,
that we did not see it.
The Mayor was present, early in
the action; but his efforts were so
gentle that they aided little in the
preserving of the peace. Yet he was
not without excuse and reason; for
pending the events, there approached
a friend he said he was a friend, and
a friend of the Democratie party
and advised him to have nothing to
do with the affair. But few dark
scenes are without some bright spot.
Col. D. Howard Smith, Auditor, went
in, resolutely, endeavoring to stay the
mad career of the mob. He was
alone, and after vain efforts, was repelled
with threats. He then said,
and repeated his appeal to authority,
that if he could get twenty- five armed
men he would drive the mob from the
jail. He denounced the proceedings
as unjust and murderous, and said it
could be proven by a creditable man
in town that at the time the crime
was committed, this boy was at work
under his employer's eye. And four
or five other men are now ready to
swear I believe the affidavit was
made in the Coroner's Court- to that
effect.
The Mayor was on the street, the
Governor in his palace, entertaining
a party,
eral, who has lately had reputation
for killing and catching outlaws, was
in town, and the Arsenal with all the
arms and amunition of the State,( ex
cept those in the hands of the" Kentucky
Legion,") was in five minutes'
pace of this cold- blooded scene of
action.
The negro was hung and repeatedly
shot, but, without hope of mercy from
man, died protesting his innocence.
He leaves a wife and three children in
Frankfort. His character heretofore
said to have been good. But he
is was a negro.
