THE EDGEFIELD LYNCHING.
Extenuating Statements which are Made
in Behalf of the Accused.
( Special to the News and Courier.)
AUGUSTA, GA., October 22 .-- This
beautiful city is so near to Edgefield
and is so intimately connected with
the county that no day passes that
several Edgefield men are not seen on
the umbrageous streets. It is easy,
therefore, to obtain the gossip concerning
the Edgefield affairs which
rarely finds its way into print. The
all- absorbing topic in Edgefield at
this time is the lynching of Culbreath,
and it must be admitted that the state
ments which are made in Augusta
upon the subject change materially
the aspect of the deplorable affair.
It is asserted that Mr. Culbreath
treated his wife with the utmost brutality
after her father's death, and that
his conduct was so offensive to the
people that it is surprising that he was
not lynched at an earlier day. Among
his other offences, it is said that in a
drunken fit he lashed his wife severe-
y with a buggy whip, and when remonstrated
with by her mother lashed
that lady in the same way. As a con
sequence of his behavior, a separation
took place. Mr. Culbreath, however,
continued a surveillance over his wife's
actions, and without any reason what
As is
known, Mr. Hammond was assassinated
in the yard of Mrs. Culbreath's house
where he had gone at the request of
her son to remain for the night. One
of my informants says that he knows
it to be a fact that Mr. Culbreath
caused Hammond to be assassinated,
and that he was as much the assassin
as though he had actually pulled the
trigger. This, at all evens, was believed
in the county and was the immediate
cause of the lynching, The peo
ple of the county felt that such conduct
should be tolerated no longer,
and they unwisely took the law into
their own hands. An Edgefield man
whom I talked with said, with great
emphasis, that he held that lynching
was never justifiable, but if ever it was
to be justifiable it was so in Culbreath's
case.
There are now in Edgefield jail more
than thirty persons who are accused
of participation in the lynching. The
accommodations are altogether insufficient
, and the prisoners are threatened
with disease by reason of the condi-
astion of the buildings in which they are
confined. They did not apply for
bail, but have suffered severely al-
ready, and their suffering is not in
their confinement alone. The accused
form the bulk of the adult male population
of two or more townships in
Edgefield county. They are taken
from their plantations at a busy season
of the year, and in their absence it is
impracticable to control the colored
laborers, who are filching the cotton
from the fields right and left. It is
asserted in all seriousness that many
tamilies will be deprived of bread and
meat by the arrest of the accused, all
of whom, it is said, are ready to give
bail to any amount that may be requir-
ed.
I give these statements in order that
the public may know what is said by
those who are acquainted with the
lynchers, and who feel that the act was
so nearly justifiable that there is no
reason to keep the accused in jail, and
who maintain, further, that the facts
to be developed before the grand jury
or in open Court will satisfy the public
mind that no great wrong has been
done. When it is urged that the
Courts should have been resorted to, it
is shown that the original offences of
Culbreath could not have been made
the subject of a judicial investigation
without a public scandal.
As regards the assassination of Ham
mond there is a feeling, I am sorry to
say, that whatever the evidence, Cul
breath would not have been convicted,
and that lynch law was the only law
that would meet his case. The accused
are said to be highly respectable, industrious
and well- behaved citizens,
who would never, save as a last resort,
be guilty of an act of violence of any
kind.
All this is given to the readers of the
News and Courier, without comment,
,
and in order that they may know what
, is the opinion held by those who claim
to be familiar with the facts of the
case.
More Lyncbers Committed to Jail
EDGEFIELD, October 22 .-- Sheriff
Ouzts brought to jail last night Morgan
Dorn, Elbert Dorn, Richard Ham
mond and W. H. Hammond, charged
with being accessories to the Culbreath
lynching. He had warrants for two
. other parties, but could not find them.
The sheriff was arrested to- day by
Coroner Johnson under a warrant
charging him with official misconduct
in permitting and allowing prisoners
to escape. The sheriff gave bond for
his appearance at Court. Two prison
ers, Collier Hammond and Reuben
Johnson, were granted permission last
night to go to their respective homes
, under charge of a constable, the party
to return to- night. For this offence
another warrant was issued against the
sheriff, charging him with maliciously
. permitting prisoners to escape. He
, was again arrested and promptly
gave bail. again
