LYNCHING IN TEXAS
James Sweeney is Swung Up by a Mob at
Port Arthur.
CLEARED BY JURY IN A MURDER TRIAL
Set Free by Law After Having Killed Man
with Bayonet.
MCB MAKES SHORT WORK OF THE MAN
Takes Him from a Train and Hangs Him
from Telephone Fole.
ROPE BROKE IN THE FIRST ATTEMPT
Legs Are Then Tied so that Feet Can
Touch the Ground and
the Rope is Drawn
Tant.
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Feb. 11.- A Times
special from Port Arthur, Tex., says:
James Sweeney( white) was lynched at 1
o'clock this morning. Sweeney was a cotton
serewman foreman and had killed Charles
Crumbach, a fellow laborer, by jamming a
bayonet through his neck.
The crime was committed on the afternoon
of February 1 in a room with no witnesses
present and is said to have resulted from a
saloon fight that took place a few hours
previous.
Monday Sweeney was indicted for mur
der in the first degree He was placed on
.
trial at Beaumont, Tex., Friday and last
night the jury returned a verdict of not
guilty. As soon as he was released Sweeney
returned to Port Arthur, arriving here at
12:30 this morning.
Word had been telegraphed ahead that he
was coming and a mob met him at the depot,
marched him up town and strung him up
to a telephone pole without ceremony. In
the first attempt the rope broke. The second
attempt was made successfully by tieing
Sweeney's legs so his feet could not touch
the ground and drawing the rope taut.
Mob Quietly Disperses.
Their work accomplished, the mob, which
was made up of Port Arthur citizens, dispersed
quietly. Sheriff Langham of Beau
mont was notified of the mob's work and
immediately started for Port Arthur. He re
turned to Beaumont tonight with" Jack"
Martin, a boss stevedore and a fellow work
man of Crumbash, in custody. Martin Is
believed to have been a ringleader in the
lynching. Port Arthur is the southern
terminus of the Kansas City, Pittsburg&
Gulf railroad. The town was built up with
the advent a few years ago of that railroad
and most of its citizens are northern people.
The citizens deplore the lynching but
of them appear to condemn it. none
