WHITE CAPMARAUDERS
They Have at Last Reached New
York and Pennsylvania.
JAMESTOWN TERRORIZED.
The White Caps Make a Bold Raid on the
Village and One Citizen Is Severely
Whipped- Many People Served
with Threatening Notices.
JAMESTOWS, N. Y., Dec. 17.- Late at
night eight men on horseback, with white
handkerchiefs tied on their hats, and wear
ing white masks, rode through the principal
streets, and halted in front of The Morning
News office, which paper had been devoting
much attention to alleged White Cap warn
ings that have been freely circulating
through the city during the past week. The
leader cried in à ringing voice:" Let the
good work go on," and the horsemen then
trotted off, creating consternation wherever
they appeared.
Men who had been warned not to be seen
on the streets without their wives after 10:30
P. m. darted into dark hallways until the
ghastly procession had passed, and then hur
ried to their homes in mortal fear. A police
man made a valiant attempt to head off the
horsemen as they passed along Main street,
but they paid no attention to him. The visitation
was thought by many to be a hoax,
but they were undeceived in the morning.
Soon after midnight a badly scared urchin
told the following story:
Near Swede Hill, on the outskirts of the
city, a man named Anderson had been in
bed but a short time when a band of eight
men on horseback, and each wearing a hand
kerchief over his hat, drove up and stopped
in front of the house. Five of the men dis
mounted, and leaving the horses in charge of
the other three, went silently to the house.
A loud rap brought Mr. Anderson to the
door in his night dress. Without saying a
word the leader of the party threw a blanket
over Anderson's head. He was then thrown
down, his hands securely pinioned, and the
party marched away, dragging their help
less victim with them.
He struggled furiously, but the superior
force of the assailants was too much for the
unarmed prisoner. The White Caps went a
short distance up the hill and then turned
into a vacant lot, in which a few trees were
standing. The helpless man was securely
tied to a tree, and while the rest of the
White Caps formed in a semicircle, the leader
took a heavy whip, and still maintaining
the strictest silence, began to rain blows on
the writhing form of his victim, who groaned
and cried out for mercy. When the punish
ment was concluded the man who seemed to
be the leader warned Anderson that should
he dare say a word about the affair the dose
would be repeated in worse form.
The police took hold of the matter and an
examination is in progress before Police
Justice Yates. The hearing is secret, lest
the men who were concerned in the outrage
should flee the city. Evidence confirming
all the particulars here given is said to have
come out, and intense excitement prevails.
This is a sample of the letters that, in view
of the above episode, have created so much
terror:
NATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF WHITE CAPS,
OFFICE OF DIVISION, NEW YORK BRANCH.
JAMESTOWN, Dec. 14, 1888.
MR., DEAR SIR- You are hereby notified
that you, with others, are spotted by the brother
hood, and we warn you that after this date you
will be kept under strict surveillance, and if
found away from your home after 10:30 p. m. on
any evening, unless accompanied by your wife,
you will, for the first offense, receive twenty- five
lashes at the whipping post. We beg that you
will give this matter due consideration, as we do
not wish to resort to any harsh measures; but we
assure you that we mean to regulate this city,
and that you are not the only one who has been
noticed. Please be warned in time. Your true
friends, THE WHITE CAPS.
News has been received that in various
parts of the county farmers and others suspected
of straying from virtue have received
just such letters. To say that this region is
stirred up is to put it mild.
BRADFORD, Pa., Dec. 16.- Much excitement
prevails among certain persons in this city,
owing to notices received warning them to
quit this town or they will be summarily
dealt with. These messages are signed by
" Commander White Caps." The White Caps
will meet with a red hot reception, as the
persons warned are well armed and will
sist at every point. re
