THE people of Oxford, Ohio, visited
vengeance yesterday on a scoun-
summary
drel who had violated a respectable lady
While we cannot
of that community.
advocate mob law as a proper punish
ment for crime, yet it can truthfully be
said that if there is a crime in the whole
category of crimes which justifies a sum-
administration of lynch law it is
mary,
the hideous crime of rape. It is a deed
that comes home to every citizen. It is
a contingency that threatens every house
hold in the community its punishment
is not made sure, swift if and terrible.
A Just Measure of Punishment
for the Crime of Rape- A Negro
Brute Shot by a Mob.
CINCINNATI, O., September 3.- Jim
Garnett, the negro who committed a rape
on the person of Mrs. Perry Kingery, the
wife of a farmer, near Oxford, Ohio, Saturday
last, was taken out of jail to- day
at noon shot a
The following are the details of the
affair:
OXFORD, O., September 3.- On Saturday
resident afternoon of this Jim place Garnett, aged', twenty colored- five, a
years, and of bad character, went to the
house of Perry Kingery, a white man,
living about one and a half miles southeast
of town, knowing that Mr. Kingery
was absent, and committed a rape upon
Mrs. Kingery, who is of one of the first
families of this county.
As soon as the black brute had accomplished
his hellish object, Mrs. Kingery
caught up her baby and fled to where her
husband was working, distant about
mile, and informed one
mile, and informed him of what had happened
, and described the perpetrator,
although not knowing his name. Mr.
Kingery immediately came to Oxford
and found
,
, arrested and imprisoned Garnett
, who remained in the station house,
closely watched by relatives of Kingery
Early on morning
ery came and identified Garnett as the
man who had violated her person. Mrs.
Kingery attempted to shoot Garnett in
the station, but was prevented. Garnett
was then locked in his cell, and the relatives
and friends stationed themselves
around the building, openly declar ing
they would hang him. The streets were
blockaded with people, and every one,
old and young, was in sympathy with the
crowd.
At one o'clock the relatives broke into
the building and dragged the prisoner
from the cell, calling for a rope, but the
Marshal coming, some one shot the negro,
and the men rushed out and stood around
waiting for news of his death. The wound
was slight, the ball entering on the right
of the spinal column and lodging in the
right hip.
Another attempt was made about four
o'clock to kill him, but it also failed.
Garnett had previously made five
attempts against ladies in this vicinity similar.
