TERRIBLE PUNISHMENT INFLICTED
UPON BLACKS IN FLORIDA.
FLAYED ALIVE AND BURNED.
SWIFT AND AWFUL RETRIBUTION
FOR A GREAT CRIME.
Three Negroes Quickly Lynched in the
Swamps of the Suanee River for the
Murder of Mamle Armstrong, a
Young White Girl, Accompanied
by Atrocious Indignities.
St. Louis, Mo., May 19.- A special from
Ellaville, Fla., to the Republic says: Three
negroes were lynched Saturday night in a
dense swamp of the Suanee river, by white
men, for assaulting a white girl. It is re ..
ported that they wer"' ve and then
burned, after being to frightful
tortures.
The crime for whi. the negroes were
so horribly put to death was one of the
most terrible in the history of this section
of Florida. The scene of the crime and
retribution was in Lafayette, the adjoining
county to Madison, on the south. Miss
Mamie Armstrong, the beautiful daughter
of a prominent Lafayette county farmer,
left her home five days ago to spend the
night with a neighbor, who lived two miles
distant. The next day Miss Armstrong's
father went to the house to bring her
home, and was alarmed to hear that noth
ing had been seen of her. Mr. Armstrong
alarmed the neighbors and a search was
made. The woods were scoured and the
Suanee river dragged. Finally, about mid
way between the home of Mr. Armstrong
and the neighbor's house, the handkerchief
of the girl was found, clinging to a bush,
and all around were evidences of a desperate
struggle.
The searchers followed the trail thus
indicated, finding that the girl had been
dragged into the woods. After proceeding
for a mile, the corpse of Miss Armstrong
was found in a thick clump of bushes. The
body of the girl was in a horrible condition
. Every shred of clothing had been
torn from it and she had been assaulted.
Her head was crushed and her throat
cut.
It was evident that the girl had made a
desperate fight, for under her nails were
found pieces of black cuticle, which she
had torn from her assailants.
Sam Echols was suspected and threatened
with instant death unless he con
fessed. He did so and implicated Sim
Crowley and John Brooks.
Echols said they kept the girl for twenty
- four hours before killing her, treating
her to the most horrible indignities. For
the greater part of the time, the negro
said, Miss Armstrong was unconscious.
Having secured the negroes implicated
by Echols, the white men proceeded with
the three flends to a dense swamp on the
Suanee river, where they were made to
suffer torture similar to that which they
inflicted on the girl.
The white people are terribly aroused
and swear they will exterminate the negroes
if these outrages are continued.
PRESBYTERIANS IN PITTSBURG.
The Divines of the General Assembly Occu
pled Many Pulpits in the City Yesterday
-Moderator Booth's Sermon.
Pittsburg, Pa., May 19.- Pittsburg Presbyterians
boast especially of their ortho
dox Presbyterianism and claim the smoky
atmosphere has had no effect in obscuring
the clearness of their Calvinistic vision.
But it is many a day since the place was
last taken possession of so completely by
the forces of the denomination. Churches
of all sorts and varieties opened their doors
and pulpits to- day and it took a long column
of small type to set forth all of the
appointments made and accepted by the
divines of the Presbyterian general assembly
. The greatest interest was felt, how
ever, in the sermon of the moderator, Dr.
R. Booth, who preached as usual in the
church where the assembly sits. He was
greeted by a large audience, which contained
a large proportion of assembly commissioners
. Dr. Booth was attended in the
pulpit by Dr. William McEwan, the pastor
of the church, and by Dr. William E.
Moore, permanent clerk, of the assembly.
His text was taken from the gospel of
John xii: 32," And I, if I be lifted from the
earth, will draw all men unto Me."
Parts of two days have now been de
voted by the assembly to the discussion of
the subject of assembly control of the
theological seminaries. To- morrow the
matter will be resumed with vigor. Thus
far all attempts to limit debate have been
voted down overwhelmingly, but word has
gone forth that a decision must be reached
at 4 o'clock Monday afternoon. Many,
however, doubt the ability of the leaders
to put this programme through. The attitude
of the liberals favors postponement
committee of conference with the seminaries
is thoroughly aired, it will be weakened
and will lose votes every day. The
conservatives, on the contrary, want a decision
, quick, sharp and overwhelming.
THE WORLD'S OUTPUT OF IRON.
Mr. Berkenbine Presents Some Instructive
Figures on This Subject- Production
in the United States.
Washington, May 19.-Mr. John Berken
bine, the iron ore expert of Philadelphia,
has prepared for the division of mineral
resources of the United States geological
survey an exhaustive report of the iron
ore resources of the world, in which the
production of iron ore in 1893 is estimated
at about 52,500,000 long tons.
The portion of this report relating to the
United States shows the total production
of iron ore in this country in 1894 was 11,
879,679 long tons, of 2,240 pounds, as com
pared with 11,587,629 long tons in 1893.
This is an increase of about 2½ per cent.
This production is only 73 per cent of the
maximum production of the United States,
namely, 16,296,666 long tons, which was the
output in 1892, but is slightly greater than
that of 1893, the proportion in that year
being 71 per cent of 1892, showing a remarkable
falling off. The falling off is fur
ther shown by the statement that the average
production for the years from 1889
to 1892, inclusive, was 15,280,482 long tons,
while for the last two years it has been but
11,733,654 long tons, a difference of 3,626,828
tons. Of the classes of iron ore mined,
the red hemitite continues to be the lead
ing variety, being 79 per cent of the total
production; brown hemitite, magnetite and
carbonite following in the order named,
the last being only about three- fourths of
1 per cent of the total product.
The number of blast furnaces in opera
tion also show an increase over 1893. The
number in blast at the close of 1893 was 137;
at the close of 1894, 185.
Twenty- four states produced iron ore in
1894.
TYLER'S GRANDSON DEAD.
He Was the Only Man- Child Ever Born in
the White House.
Washington, May 19.- The only male per
son ever born in the White House, Robert
Tyler Jones, a grandson of President Ty
ler, is dead in this city. He was the son of
Mary Tyler Jones, the eldest and favorite
daughter of the president. He served in
the Confederate army as a captain and was
a brave and faithful soldier. In later years
he was employ in the treasury department
. Since his retirement from that position
he has had practically no employ-
ment.
Gresham and Hitt Improving.
Washington, May 19.- Secretary Gresham
had a quiet, restful day.
Representative Hitt's condition to- day
was the best since his illness assumed
such a critical stage.
En Route for Houston.
Ardmore, I. T., May 19 .-( Special.) Eighty
Confederate veterans, members of John A.
camp, 107, U. C. V., of this place,
with Morgan about 150 visitors, many of them mem.
