LOUISVILLE A MOB.
The City of Louisville Excited Over the
Jennie Bowman Murder- Lynching of the
Murderers Only Provented by the Military
and Police.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 30.- Every thing
was quiet about the jail yesterday morn
g, though the talk was that another and
more determined effort be made to
lynch the negroes at night. The rumors.
that Miss Jennie Bowman had died of her
injuries in circulation tended to revive the.
excitement over the outrage, and toward:
evening crowds began to collect on the:
streets in the vicinity of the jail, until by
ten o'clock several thousand men and boys.
were in the neighborhood. Later another
crowd assembled, probably 500 strong, and
marched down Jefferson street, steadily and:
silently, until near the corner of Sixth and
Jefferson streets, where they were met by
one hundred police, who rushed out of a
hall where they were bivouacked. The
crowd moved on in a determined manner
that seemed likely to force the police aside,
but the latter stood firm, and for a time.
there was a pell- mell, hand- to- hand fight ,,
which resulted in several broken heads and
arrests. The leaders were soon taken and
rushed off to a station house, and the crowd
gave way and took to their heels and in a.
moment were in full flight. The police,
after pursuing them a short distance, returned
and formed a line across the street,
where they remained on guard.
The answer of the Governor to a call for
aid from the militia was received at 11:15.
o'clock yesterday morning, and several.
companies were ordered to guard the jail ..
Despite this, however, at 12:25 p. m. the
agreed signal of eleven taps by the fire:
department bells in case of an attack upon.
the jail was rung, as great crowds of peo
ple were pressing toward the jail, around
which the militia were stationed, and the
police and a mob were fighting.
By 12:45 p. m. about 3,000 people were assembled
on the jail square, and Jefferson
street was the scene of great confusion,
people, rushing toward the jail from all
points, but no serious had occurred
and it was not expected that any would at.
present, as the crowd was forming out of
curiosity. Later, however, it was reported
that the alarm was the usual call to notify
the members of the legion when they were.
expected to report for duty at the armory.
The people misunderstood the alarm. The
crowd then dispersed and no more trouble.
was feared. Late in the afternoon the
mayor issued the following proclamation:
MAYOR'S OFFICE, LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 29.
- To the people of Louisville: It is my duty
as mayor to enjoin upon the people the necessity
for preserving order and maintaining the
majesty of the law. A most diabolical crime
has been committed in our city, but the
law must inflict the punishment. A riot.
is more dangerous to good government.
than any individual criminal. Lynch law
subverts every principle of law and at
tacks our very civilization. I, therefore, in
the discharge of my duty, request every citizen
to remain at home to- night and to avoid all
gatherings, and I caution parents not to permit.
their children to go in the streets, as their
presence increases the number and adds to the
excitement. I must and will discharge my
duty to uphold the law and to preserve good
order, and I command all riotous assemblages.
to disperse. P. R. REED, Mayor.
While the mayor was inditing the above.
the first movement looking to an organization
of the exasperated people, who openly
and on all sides advocated lynching, was
being made. In response to a notice which
had been distributed among the thousands
who rushed to the jail at the alarm at mid
day, given to order the members of the.
militia to report for duty, about 500 men
gathered in front of Leiderkranz hall, on
Market street. The janitor refused them
admission to the hall and the police were.
endeavoring to disperse them, when Dr.
Berry, a well known physician of the city,
mounted a barrel on the sidewalk and ad
dressed them. He said that since the
brutal crime of Patterson and Turner none
of the women and children feel any security
, and that while he generally was op
posed to mob law, there was nothing to be
done in this case but to lynch the negro
fiends. The law had again and again failed
to punish murderers. They had been sent
to the penitentiary when they ought to
have been hung. The lawyers defended
blood- stained criminals whom they knew to
be guilty. If this crime was not atoned
for a chance would be missed to set a terrible
example to the hundreds of idle,
worthless and thieving negroes who infested
the alleys and slums of the city.
The doctor was cheered at frequent inter
vals. While he was speaking Major Kinney,
a leading criminal lawyer, passed through
the crowd. A number of the men stopped
him and then, surrounding him, demanded
in an excited manner why he defended
men whom he knew to be criminals. The
major commenced to explain and expostulate
, declaring that he had never acted as
attorney for a man whom he believed to be
gulity. He was never more earnest or eloquent
in his life, and breathed a heavy sigh
of relief when he slipped out of that throng.
The doctor resumed his remarks and the
meeting adjourned to a hall near by, where.
the names of about one hundred citizens.
whose sentiments were known, and who, it.
was believed, would join any organized effort.
to lynch the negroes, were selected.
On Market street a crowd of about 100
me were marching up and down, each with
about a foot of white cotton rope tied to
place
the arm.
In a prominent on the
court house is the illuminated design:
" Wanted- 500 men to join this mob." Up
to this writing good order has prevailed.
The mob appears to have no leader and ap
pears to be only watching out of curiosity
for something to turn up. The police and
militia are determined to defend the jail,
come what may, and if the attempt is made
there will be bloodshed sure.
The soldiers late last night were ordered
from the armory to the jail, with a Gatling
A crowd of fully 10,000 people was
gun.
surging to and fro on Jefferson street.
Many women were seen mingling with the
crowd. All appeared to be attracted by
curiosity only, and the best of order pre
vailed.
At 12:30 a. m. the crowd about the court.
house square dwindled down to 300 or 400
people, and they were dispersing gradually.
Three hundred and fifty soldiers with a
Gatling gun and 150 armed policemen
stood guard at the jail. The
take
agreed to
meeting upon
place at the court house to- day will
not be allowed, and there is hardly a doubt.
now that the law will be allowed to take
its course. The girl is almost certain to
die, and the evidence is strong enough in
that case to bring both men to the gal
lows.
A Clew to the Robbers.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 30.- What is considered
an important clew to the identity
of the train robbers has been obtained.
few weeks stranger purchased a
A ago a
suit of clothes at an establishment on the
corner of Fort and Dupont street, and
in taking off his old suit a letter dropped
from a pocket. The letter was found
by the clerk after the purchaser's depart
ure. It gave a description to an accomplice
of a plan to rob a train on the Southern.
Pacific railway. The confederate was instructed
to get off the train at Nogales.
The letter concluded with these words:
" Paint your face black and be sure to cover
your red hair." The letter has been given
to the police authorities.
The Pullman Suits.
PHILADELPHIA, April 29.- Judges McKen
nan and Butler, in the United States court.
yesterday afternoon, in the litigation be
tween the Pullman Palace Car Company
and the Central Transportation Company,
granted a preliminary injunction restrain
ing the Central Transportation Company
from prosecuting suits for the recovery of
rental under the terms of the original
lease accruing after July 1, 1886, the time
the surrender was made; also enjoining the
defendant company from paying$ 12 a share
dividend to the stockholders, representing
the reduction of par value from$ 50 to$ 38
per share, and declaring the resolutions of
reduction passed by the Central Transportation
Company directors invalid..
