A MADMAN'S FRENZY.
Arthur Palmer Kills His Brother and
Mortally Wounds His Moth
er and Sister.
New York, Jan. 18.- At Mamaroneck,
Westchester county, to- night, Arthur
Palmer, during a fit of insanity, shot his
brother, Leonard Palmer, killing him al
most instantly, and fatally wounding his
mother and sister. The murderer has been
considered mildly insane for some time
past, but this afternoon a fit of frenzy
seized him, which resulted some hours
later in his securing a revolver and attack
ing the family. He began a general
fusillade, first turning the weapon on his
sister. Gertrude. He fired two shots at her,
both of which took effect, one in her abdo!
men and the other in her right arm. Then
he shot his mother, three bullets entering
her body, two in the back and one in the
side. Leonard Palmer, who heard the shots
while working in the barn, ran into the
house.
The insane man met him with several
shots, one of the bullets striking him
squarely in the forehead and killing him.
Gertrude, the sister, managed to escape
from the house and fled, with blood stream
ing from her wounds, to a neighbor's
house.
When help arrived, Mrs. Palmer had
lapsed into unconsciousness, and, after
telling in a hysterical way the leading de
tails of the tragedy, the girl Gertrude also
became unconscious. They will probably
die. PINTA
The murderer, who is a tall, powerful
man, escaped to the woods, where he is
supposed to be hiding. A large posse is
hunting for him.
FRED CHISM EXTRADITED.
Governor Leedy Surrenders Mis
sourl Negro, Who Is Charged
With Abduction.
Sedalia, Mo., Jan. 18 .-( Special.) Last fall
Fred Chism, a coal black negro, induced
Rosa Thouvenal, a 16- year- old white girl,
the daughter of a Benton county farmer,
to run away from home with him. The
couple went to Lawrence, Kas., where they
were married by a colored preacher. Chism
was arrested at Lawrence on a warrant
charging him with abduction, and the girl
was persuaded to return to her Missouri
home. Governor Morrill refused to honor
the requisition of the Missouri authorities
and Chism was discharged from custody.
Governor Morrill, it was stated at the
time, refused to honor the requisition on
the ground that Chism's attorneys claimed
that if the negro was taken back to Missouri
he would be lynched by the friends
and neighbors of the girl's father. Govern
or Leedy has taken a different view of the
case, and on Saturday issued the papers
for Chism's arrest. He was brought here
last night, where his attorney made an
unsuccessful effort to secure a writ of
habeas corpus. Chism was taken to War
saw this morning. Mayor P. D. Hastain,
of this city, has been retained to assist in
the prosecution.
Mississippi Negro Lynched.
Columbus, Miss., Jan. 18.- One day last
week, Peter Henderson, colored, porter
a Pullman car, assaulted Flagman Griffin on
