Two Views of It.
[ Chicago Tribunt.]
If ever a crime was committed which just-
fied a recourse to mob violence in order that
its punishment might be swift and sure- if any
conceivable atrocity can be considered as justifying
lynch law- such a crime was that of
the tramp who was yesterday morning taken
from the jail at Minneapolis and hanged from
the limb of a tree in front of the high school
lated a little girl of four years, injuring the
child so severely that her life is despaired of;
he had been identified beyond question as the
the deed, and after being taken
perpetrator
from the jail had made a full confession.
Under these circumstances it is not surprising
that public sentiment in Minneapolis and St.
Paul is on the side of the well- ordered
a vengeance. mob
Chicago[ Herald.jave
Minneapolis is disgraced. It is a beautiful
city, and one in which the advancement of
civilization was supposed to have kept even
pace with the increase of wealth and population
. Yet it is the first city of importance in
which the wild, cruel and often mistaken law
of the border mob has usurped the place of
the law of the state.
To many it seems almost incredible that in
a city of 50,000 inhabitants, with all the offcers
and machinary for executing the law, a
mob should be able to carry out its unlawful
work so easily, so swiftly, so uninterruptedly.
What did it mean? One report says:" The
police were on the ground, but found nothing
to do, for every one was of the same mind."
Only one reason could account for such unanimity
. The whole community mistrusted the
punishment of the prisoner by the ordinary
courts of justice. The result has been brought
about by overloading the statute books with
laws and the absurd rulings of the courts in
allowing all sorts of technicalities to be intervened
to save criminals. Courts, juries and
executives have made the swift and adequate
punishment of crime almost impossible.
Minneapolis is the last large city in which
we want to hear of Judge Lynch usurping
the place of sovereign law. But if it is to be,
it is about time all sentimentalism got
out of the way and let the law have a chance.
On a trial all the legal inferences must not
be in favor of the prisoner. The state must
have some inferences in its favor. Sergeant
Balientine, one of England's greatest criminal
thor-
lawyers says he has rarely known of a
,
oughiy innocent person being convicted. In
many of our courts it has come to a pass that
it is rare to see a thoroughly guilty person
convicted. This is the true explanation of the
Minneapolis lynching. It is an explanation
which is a shame and a reproach to our
criminal administration and one which should
be radically and
Give us swift and sure legal execution of
justice and there will be no lynchings, for
there will be none of the mistrust of the
which renders lynching possible. law
