LYNCHED, ITALIANS
Alleged Assassins of Chief Hennessy
Killed in New Orleans.
Nine Men Shot Crouching in the
Prison and Two Hanged.
A mob, extraordinary in size, extraordinary
in its make up, extraordinary in its de
termination, a few days ago in New Orleans,
La, hilled eleven of the nineteen Italians
charged with the murder of Chief of Police
Hennessy. It was a mob led by lawyers and
merchants, men of large wealth and high
standing. It was so strong that the authorities
made no show of resistance and suc
eambed before it. Indeed the officers of the
law threw up their hats and cheered the
mob in its work.
These are the names of those shot or
hanged: Joseph Macheca, Antonio Mar
chesi, Antonio Scaffedi, Rocco Geracci,
James Carnso Saretto Comitez, Pietro Monastero
, Louis Trahina, Frank Romero, Man
el Polizzi, Antonio Bagnetto.
When on the day before the jury brought
in a verdict of not guilty against six of the
Italians on trial and disagreed as to the other
three howl of indization was heard. The
, a
press unanimously denounced the verdict,
and declared that the jury had been bought
The Grand Jury had already found indict
ments against two men charged with
the jury and other
with,
tampering
indictments were expected. The jurors
not understand the public sen
ment, and were surprised at the public indignation
. Mr. Seligman, the foreman, explained
that the jury had found its verdict
because it did not believe the State witnesses,
with
The jury stood twelve for the acquittal of
Macheca Encarcada, Matrazo, the two
,
Marchesis, and Bagnetto, and nine to three
for the conviction of the others.
Nine of the jurors regarded with suspicion
the three dissenting jurors, and one of them
expressed the opinion that these jurors were
bought, for throughout the trial they ex
pressed their intention to bring a verdict of
not guilty, The excitement over the verdict
reached fever heat by night, and three or
four secret meetings were held to consider
the situation.
The trial of the case had cost the city
$ 30,000 and lasted for over a month, and yet
none of the prisoners had been convicted.
Soon after the assassination of Chief Hennessy
a law and order committee was ap
pointed by Mayor Shakespeare to take charge
of this case and to investigate the murder, and
$ 15,000 was appropriated for that purpose by
the City Council. The committee showed a
disposition at first to resolve itself into a
vigilance committee, but better counsel pre
vailed, largely through the influence of the
newspapers, and the committee agreed to let
the law take its course, but with an under
standing that in case the law failed they
would resort to lynching.
The committee met after the verdict. A
call was drawn up by E. H. Farrar, a lawyer
and President of the Committee of Law
and Order. It was short and read as follows:
" All good citizens are invited to attend a
mass meeting at 10 o'clock A. M., at the Clay
statue, to take steps to remedy the failure of
justice in the Hennessy case. Come prepared
for action."
This call was signed by forty men of high
standing in the community, including lawyers
, merchants and others. Among the
E. T. Liche Commissioner of
signers was,
Public Works of the city.
The meeting at the Clay statue on Canal
was held promptly at ten. Just
street
as the stroke of that honr was heard
a shout weut up from the people stationed
at St. Charles street, and a num
ber of men, among whom were W.
S. Parkerson, John O. Wickliffe and others
who signed the call, came marching along
and began walking around and round the
railing of the monument. There were fully
3000 people within earshot, and more could
be seen struggling, pushing and running
toward the spot.
" Fall in, fall in!" was the cry, and, with
shouts, the procession, which went around
the railing several times, was swollen.
" Hurrah for Parkerson!"
" Hurrah for Wickliffe?"
* Get inside the railing and give us a
speech!"
Those and other cries made up the con
fusion of noise. The space inside the railing
was occupied by the dense crowd.
" Come down from those steps," was the
order," and let Mr. Parkerson and Mr.
Wickliffe get there!"
The crowd obeyed, and soon the speaker
had the place. A rush was made for the nar
row gate, and in a minute there stood a
packed mass under the statue of Clay. Mr.
Parkerson was the first speaker. He is a
er, the organizer of the Young Men's
1, beratic movement, an independent organization
, which at the late election defeat
ed the regular Democratic party and elected
the entire present city government.
Mr. Parkerson mounted the pedestal of the
monument and spoke at some length. He
arraigned the jury which had acquitted the
accused, arraigned Private Detective D. C.
O'Mally, who had assisted in the defense, and
denounced him as a perjurer, a suborner and
a briber of juries. He was repeatedly inter-
upted by cries of
* Let's hang the murderers""" Let's hang
O'Mally!"
Walter Denegre, a wealthy real estate
man, followed in a similar strain, and was
succeeded in turn by John C. Wickliffe. edi
tor of the States. These three speakers are
all lawyers. By this time the crowd had
become thoroughly excited.
" Let's haug them!"" Hang them!" and
similar expressions were heard on all sides.
The speeches had not lasted more than fif
teen minutes. The crowd by this time numbered
about 5000.
The signal to march was then given, and
away the crowd went down Royal street.
The Slaughter at the Prison.
The mob seemed determined on quiet work.
At the word of command they started to
ward the parish prison at a dog trot. It was
then seen that there were three carts in the
meb in which were a number of ladders to
storm the prison if necessary. There were
also ropes with which to lynch the prisoners.
Some 200 men armed with rifles made their
appearance as men who proposed to take the
prison at any cost.
W. S. Parkerson was the Commander, J.
D. Houston, ex- Criminal Sheriff and the
manager of the Democratic party of the
State for years, was First Lieutenant, and
J. C. Wicklife, formerly District Attorney
and editor of the States, Second Lieutenant.
Around these armed men the mob surged,
some three or four thousand strong. Here
and there in the crowd was a man armed
with a rifle or a shotgun, but the majority
had only revolvers.
When they reached the prison it was soon
seen that the men were organized as a mili-
tary body. The 200 with guns drew up in
front of the main gate on Orleans street,
other squads went to Treme, Marais and St.
Anne streets, completely surrounding the
prison.
The leaders of the mob made a formal
smand on Captain Lem Davis, keeper of the de
in for admission. He refused, and said
prison,
that he could surrender keys without
the consent of the Sheriff. He called upon
the mob to disperse. His refusal was greeted
with jeers and groans.
Messengers were immediately dispatched
for axes and crowbars and picks. These
were soon procured from a neighboring
blacksmith shop, and the mob set to
to break in the big iron gate in front of work the
prison. It is a massive concern, and the
instruments made no impression on it. In
the mean time another squad attacked the
side gate on Marais street. This
might easily have been defended
by the Sheriff, but no attempt
had been made for its defence. The door
was battered with some of the beams on the
street and finally broken by a colored man
with an ax. The leaders of the mob stood at
the door and only fifty men, the men who
had first volunteered their services, were
allowed to enter, the rest being kept out with
difficulty. The mob first broke into the
visiting room, where they were halted for a
few seconds by the iron fence and railing.
A demand was made for the key of the
gate, and a deputy sheriff presented it to one
of the men with the remark that the mob
was irresistible and it was folly to oppose it
longer. The inside gate was thrown
any
open, and the several deputies who were in
the lobby gave way to the crowd. The door
leading into the white prisoners' yard was
open and the mob crowded through.
A cell at the door was open, and it was
crowded with prisoners, who were trembling
in every limb. A deputy stood in the door
and informed the crowd that none of those
in that cell were the prisoners wanted. Then
then the mob filed out into the yard, glancing
up at one of the cells. On the second floor
a bianched and ghastly face was seen at the
bars of the door.
" That's Scaffedi," shouted one excited individual
, and immediately several shots
were at whoever
he was, quickly disappeared. Several more
shots were fired at the door.
" They are in the female department,"
shouted a shrill voice." Where is the key?"
" Bring us the key," yelled another, and a
rush was made for the door separating the
two divisions. The door was found securely
locked.
" Batter it down," said one.
" Hold," said a young man with a Winches
ter rifle." I've got the key," and he held a
long key over his head. This announcement
was greeted with cheers. The door
was
opened and the crowd made a break to get
in.
" Hold on, gentlemen," said Mr. Parkerson.
" We do not want to shed any innocent binod.
Who knows the assassins?"
" I do,"" and I," shouted a dozen mes.
" Let me I know them," said one
in. deter
mined man, and he was admitted. Seven
men entered, and the corridor was found deserted
with the exception of one person.
This was an old colored woman.
" Dey are up stairs, boss," she said, in answer
to a question. The seven men ran up
stairs. Before they got half way up a door
was slammed and footsteps were heard run
ning along the gallery.
" There they are!" yelled one enthusiast.
" Hurrab, tiger!" said another, and the cry
was taken up by those in the lobby. The
door leading to the gallery was thrown open
and the backs of the assassins were seen dis
appearing down the winding stairway lead
ing into the yard of the colored female department
. Not a word was spoken then, but
a half dozen men quickly ran the length of
the gallery and quietly descended the stairs.
These six men did all the shooting. They
found the prisoners crouching in the
woman's Sunseri and one
the other Italians saved their lives in a dog
house, where they escaped attention. Sunseri
weighs over 200 pounds but managed to
,
make himself small for this occasion. Gas
pardo Marchesi, the boy prisoner, was saved
by some of the mob, who took mercy on his
tender years. He was concealed between
two mattresses. The other Italians were
scattered around the yard. When they saw
the mob they set up a yell for mercy.
Suddenly a voice said:" Give it to them!"
and instantly three guns and a pistol belched
forth a rain of leaden bullets.
Gerachi, who was lame and was the last of
the fleeing men, received one load in the
back of the head, and, turning a complete
somersault, fell on his face and never moved
again. Then Monasteri and Jim Caruso fell.
Their backs and heads were literally riddled
with bullets. Romero, with a cry of anguish,
crouched down on his knees, with his head
almost on the ground.
He was killed in that attitude. He was the
only one who had his hat on, and, notwith-
standing that it was riddled with bullets, it
never left his head. His black frock coat
was torn to shreds by the bullets.
The crowd on the outside heard the firing
and cheered without knowing what had been
done. Finally some one came to the door
and announced that most of the men had
been killed, but that Macheca, Marchesi the
elder and Bagnetto would be brought from
the prison and hanged.
It had been intended to take Macheca, who
was regarded as the leader of the Italians,
outside and hang him, but in the meanwhile
another section of the mob had broken into
the cell where Macheca was confined. He
heard the men coming, rushed from his cell,
which was open and toward the chapel, but
was finally cornered in a gallery of the condemned
prison.
Here a young man hit him over the head
with a rifle, which made him insensible.
was reported that he was dead, and the crowd
was about to leave him when some one suggested
as an extra precaution that he be disposed
of. A bullet was fired through his
brain. It being impossible to hang Macheca,
it was decided to lynch Polizzi and Bagnetto.
The mob on the outside had grown impatient
and demanded victims. The streets
for squares around were filled with people,
among whom were a large number of women
and children. angry crowd wanted
The
vengeance on all the nineteen Italians, and
showed some opposition when it was announced
that only four had been killed,
according to the first information
given to the mob. A loud demand
was then made that the promise to lynch
some of the prisoners should be kept. At
11 o'clock, a few minutes after the shooting,
the side door on Marais street was
pushed open and several of the armed men
appeared pushing before them Polizzi, the
haif- crazed Sicilian who offered to turn
State's evidence, but who went crazy while
attempting to do so. He was aghast with
terror and was evidently mad. He was
without coat or hat, wore a red flannel
shirt and his black hair was dishevelled.
The crowd called to the armed men to
lynch him, and he was dragged down to the
corner of Marais and St. Anne streets.
The crowd was so dense that it was difficult
to force a passage through it. From
the balconies near men and women watched
the scene with opera glasses. At the corner
was a lamp post; some one threw a rope
across the heads of the men who were push
ing the prisoner, and when the corner was
reached a man scaled the post, and threw
the rope around it.
There was already a noose at the other
end, and this was hastily and imperfectly adjusted
about the neck of the Italian. Then
willing hands at the other end tugged at the
line and the man was hoisted into the air,
his white face being turned toward the
bright sky. The rope did not hold at first,
and Polizzi slipped down to the pavement.
It was only for an instant, however.
In couple of seconds stronger hands drew
the rope a taut, and soon the body of the un-
fortunate man was dangling from the post.
As soon as the man was enough to make
the range of shots over the heads of the peo
ple a dozen loud reports rang out and the
blood gushed from Polizzi's face.
Many shots had riddled his body. Then
the rope with which he had been hanged was
wrapped securely about the post, and Poliz
zi's body was left hanging.
The body was still quivering when the cry
went up that they were lynching another
man on the other side of the prison in front
of Orleans street, whereupon the entire mot
surged in that direction. It was found that
the man who was being brought out was An
tonio Bagnetto, one of those acquitted.
He was suffering from a wound, and was
probably dead when he was lynched, or
nearly so. Two men carried him to the
park in the centre of Orleans street, on which
are several rows of trees. Some one ascended
a tree and threw another rope around a convenient
limb. When Bagnetto
was swung
up it was seen that he was shot through the
head and already dead.
The mob wanted the others, but they were
told that enough had been done.
The whole affair occupied barely forty
five minutes. It was 10:20 when the mob
reached the parish prison; it was 11:08 when
Bagnetto, the last victim, was strung np.
Of the eleven men killed four had been ac
quitted by the jury, three had had a mistrial,
and four had not been tried. The mob lingered
around the scene for some time, and
the tree to which Bagnette was hanged was
nearly cut down to carry away as momen
tos.
Polizzi and Bagnette swung to the lamp
post and tree until noon, when the Coroner
in an appearance and held an inquest on
put the bodies of all the victims.
The Italians Aroused.
The Italian Cabinet sent instructions by
cable to the Italian Minister at Washington,
Baron de Fava, to protest vehemently
against the murder of Italians in the prisou
at New Orleans. Baron Fava cabled in re
ply that he had presented the protest to the
Government of the United States, and received
in reply the promise that full satis
faction would be given.
Governor Nichols, of Louisiana, has received
a formal protest from Secretary
Blaine deploring the killing of the eleven
Italians, and urging him to bring the offend
ers to justice.
The news from New Orleans aroused a
storm of indignation among the Italian colonies
in Chicago, New York, Cincinnati and
Boston.
The eighty thousand Italians who com
prise the colony in New York were frenzied
by rage over the death of their countrymen
in New Orleans by lynch law, and called
loudly for revenge.
What Led to Lynch Law.
David C. Hennessy, Chief of the New Or
Ileans police, was shot dead near his house by
Italians on the night of last October 15. The
assassination was instigated by members of
Italian secret societies, against which Hennessy
had collected evidence of the blackest
crimes. The motive was the suppression of
the information in his possession.
The history of the immediate series of
events which culminated in the murder
dates back to last June, when a party of
Italians shot down in the street six members
of an Italian organization unfriendly to
them. Forty murders of a similar nature
had been committed by Italians in the
city during the preceding few years,
and the authorities, with the undivided
support of all English- speaking citizens, determined
to make all possible efforts to stop
this incessant slaughter by the Mafia.
Hennessey
took active charge of the resulting in
He did this with full knowledge
vestigation.
that his life would be in constant danger from
the moment the Mafia societies learned his
intention.
He had hardly begun his work when he
was notified by dozens of anonymous letters
that every step in his investigation was&
nail in his coffin. At the instance of his
friends he protected himself with a small
body guard of detectives, who accompanied
him all day and took him to his house
at night. Despite this precaution, he,
as well as all his friends, real
ized that he was constantly in imminent dan
ger of assassination. The June murderers
were brought into court. Six men were tried
and convicted. Before the case was finished,
however, the principal witness against the
was killed by the Mafia. Then
prisoners a
new trial was obtained. With renewed energy
Hennessy set about collecting more evidence
against the Stopaliagieri and other Italian
associations of assassins in the city. By taking
advantage of a feud among the members, he
secured an immense amount of sensational in
formation which, he promised, would have
weight enough to crush all the Mafia societies
in New Orleans.
His success was his death warrant. Mem
bers of societies against which he had evidence
decided he must die.
On the evening of October 15 a gang of
hired Italian murderers concealed them
selves in a vacant house at the corner of
an alleyway near his home. Hennessy,
unwarned and unsuspicious, left
his office at the usual time, ac
companied by Police Captain O'Connor.
About two blocks from his house Hennessy
bade his companion good- night, and proceeded
homeward. Although in the most
populous part of the city, Hennessy was
alone in the street for the night was black and
wet. He turned the corner near his house,
and came into the glare of an electric
light.
the house
A volley flashed from
in the alleyway. Hennessy sank wound
ed, but raised himself, drew his revolver
, and began firing back. He was answered
with scattering shots from the Italians. As
Hennessy went down with a score of wounds,
O'Connor, who had heard the firing, came
running up the street. The assassins ran
from the house and scattered. Three of them
in their terror threw away their firearms.
As they fled they were joined by four other
armed men, who had waited apparently to
kill Hennessy in case he escaped the first
gang.
Hennessy was found riddled with slugs
and buckshot. He lay gasping in his blood
at the foot of a doorstep, his revolver
At his home a
clutched in his right hand.
medical examination showed that his lungs
and stomach had been perforated, and that
two shots had been lodged in his legs. A
bullet was also found close to his
heart. Nine other bullets had passed
rational
through his clothing. He
was
the last but was too weak to sav
to
more
than that he had been killed by" Dagos."
Additional conclusive evidence of this fact
was found in the weapons thrown away by
All of them
fleeing assassins. were
the
sawed muskets, such as are used only by
Italians. The barrels were cut off short,
and the butts were on hinges, so that the
could be folded and carried in the
pocket guns.
