LAW. OF MOB DANGER THE
Three leading journalists of North Caro
lina condemn mob law as an evil in itself
and declare that the good name and busi
prosperity of that state demand its
entire ness suppression. The North Carolina
editors point out that the state constitutions
provide legislative bodies whose duty
at is to frame the laws; that if the people
of any part of a state are to be allowed at
their will the judicial function of passing
on the sufficiency of a law to meet any
particular case, then a mob becomes at
once superior to both legislature and
courts. If the assallant of a woman ought
to be punished with death, either as a
measure of the heinousness of his crime or
as a protection to other women, then let
law so provide, as it does in North
the Carolina.
At Roanoke, Va., we are now told, the
overwhelming sentiment is in favor of
public orier. There are no open apologists
for the mob who lynched the negro
a few weeks ago, and only praise for the
militla who killed several of the riotous
assailants of the jail. Poor Mayor Trout
now realizes that he made the mistake of
his life in losing his courage at the critical
moment and running away, when if he
had kept his head and ordered the militia
to stand and defend the jail and the pris
oner the disgraceful scenes which followed
his flight would probably have
avoided. been
The contagion of lawlessness is shown
by the fact that the burning of gin houses
by white caps when the owners refuse to
obey the orders to withhold their cotton
from the market is spreading from Mississippi
into the neighboring states, and a
number of cases have already occurred in
Louisiana. It is the most widespread and
alarming manifestation of organized lawlessness
that we have ever seen in this
country. There is nothing surprising in
this. Mississippi for years has allowed
Jadge Lynch to murder and maltreat
negroes and destroy their property, and
today these white ruffians have grown
boid enough to mob white people and de
stroy their property. So in Louisiana,
where mob law has had full sway for many
years. What can be expected in a state
where a city of over 200,000 population
a lows a mob of 4,000 to burst a prison and
murder its inmates in cold blood; what
can you expect where negroes are murdered
in cold blood because they will not
reveal a criminal relative's hiding place to
a lynching party. Of course these white
ruffians gradually grow more and more
lawless and they enforce mob law
white neighbors. against
