treated with the utmost leniency and generosity
."
A Lorenzo
Marquez special the
says
Transvaal authorities are evidently recruit
ing actively, and large numbers of French.
Dutch and Belgian volunteers are constant
passing through that place to join the
Boer forces.
BOERS STRONG IN BARKLY WEST,
Barkly West, March 26.- A commando of
400 Boers has reoccupied Papkuel, forcing
the rebels in the Herbert district to rejoin
the federal flag.
Extensive looting is re
ported in that direction.
METHUEN'S OPERATIONS.
London, March 27, 4:15 a. m. Military ob
servers here, and even those in close atili
ation with the War Office, are considerably
confused as to what is being done for the
succor of Mafeking. Some 5.000 or 6,000 men
are engaged with Lord Methuen at War
renton and Fourteen Streams and new an
other column is about leaving Kimberley, if
it has not already started. for Griquatown.
106 miles westward. Its ostensible purp se
is to drive out the Boers. The force is de
scribed as a" strong one," and the expedition
as likely to attract much attention."
General French is reported from Bloem
fontein Sunday as returning from Thaba
Nchu, without apparently having headed off
Commandant Olivier, with his fifteen guns
and miles of baggage.
Boer horsemen are in contact with the
British outposts from Biggarsberg to War
renton General Buller's patrols
had a
.
sharp skirmish Sunday at Waschbank.
The Times prints a statement from Cape
Town to the effect that the Boers, after
deducting heavy losses, are possibly unable
now to put more than 30,000 men on the
fighting line.
JOUBERT BACK IN PRETORIA.
Pretoria, Friday, March 23, via Lorenzo
Marquez.- General Joubert has returned
from Kroonstad. He is full of hope, and
may return to Natal shortly.
GUARDING ALSACE- LORRAINE.
Many New Forts Are Being Constructed
.
Amsterdam, March 26.- Het Handelsblad
reports that there is much military activity
just now in Alsace- Lorraine. Four new
big forts have been constructed around
Metz, and Kaiser Wilhelm will dedicate a
high tower on Gravelotte Day.
Throughout the province numerous forts
and fortifications have been built during the
past two months, giving emphasis to all
sorts of rumors and speculations.
BARRIER AGAINST COMMERCE.
Chinese Government's Interference
-Concert of Powers.
SPECIAL BY CABLE.
London, March 26 .-( Copyright, 1900, by W.
R. Hearst.)- Trouble is brewing in China for
the Powers taking the leading part in the
open- door policy. The Chinese Government,
under the influence of the Empress Dowager
, is attempting to bar the progress of
American and European commerce. Native
outbreaks against foreigners are imminent.
Communications have been passed around
in London diplomatic circles, including the
United States Embassy.
The United States, Great Britain and Ger
many are believed to be acting in concert
to protect their interests.
BRITISH CRUISER GOES TO TAKU.
Shanghai, March 26.- The British second
class cruiser Hermione has been ordered
to proceed immediately to Taku. The coun
try around Tien- Tsin is greatly disturbed,
and, according to reports here, the Powers
are making arrangements for concerted ac
tion.
It is further reported that a British missionary
has been killed.
BISHOP ANZER'S VIEW.
Berlin, March 26.- Bishop Anzer of Shan
Tung arrived here yesterday from Rome,
where he had reported fully to the Pope
regarding the Chinese missions and their
prospects. To- day he was received by Count
Von Buelow and Prince Hohenlohe, to whom
he described the present situation in Shan
Tung and at Pekin. He predicts a great
future for Tsing- Tou and the whole of
Kiao- Chau.
EMPRESS AN'S NEW MOVE.
Orders Fast Warships to Straits
Settlement.
London, March 27.- The Shanghai correspondent
of the Daily Mail says:
" The Empress Dowager has ordered the
Chinese cruisers Hai Tien and Hai Shou
to proceed to the Straits Settlement, there
to act in conjunction with the men detailed
assassinate Kang Yu Wei
to capture or
and the other reformers. She believes their
twenty- four- knot speed will enable them to
outstrip any British men- of- war."
LYNCHING IN MARYLAND.
Lewis Harris, a Negro Strung Up
for Attempted Assault.
REPUBLIC SPECIAL
Baltimore, Md., March 26.- Lewis Harris,
a negro, about 35 years old, was lynched
by a mob at Belair, in Hartford County,
Maryland, to- night. Harris was charged
with having attempted an assault upon
Miss Annie Mcllwaine about 4 o'clock Sun
day morning. By a subterfuge, Miss Mc
Ilwaine was persuaded to come to the door.
when Harris seized her. Her screams
brought another colored man named Jack
son, with a gun, and Harris fled without
accomplishing his purpose.
The lynching party, consisting of about
twenty men, all well armed, rode into Bel
air about 11 o'clock to- night and went
straight to Sheriff Kinhart's house. The
leader demanded the keys of the jail.
which adjoins the Sheriff's house in the
rear. The Sheriff refused and the mob
opened fire on him. While part of the
crowd kept up a mock fusillade at the
Sheriff's house others battered in the door
of the jail with hammers and crowbars ani
hurried Harris down the road about 300
yards and strung him up. His only state
ment was:" If I done it, I was drunk when
I done it."
Miss Mellwaine stood in front of the jail
during the melee, and pointed out the lo
cation of Harris's cell to the lynchers, Subsequently
she identified Harris and then
withdrew.
Two men were shot in the trouble at the
Sheriff's house. Neither, however, is seriously
injured.
Feeling in the neighborhood has been in
tense since an attempt was made by an un
knowr negro to assault a Miss Bradford of
Aberdeen, Md., last week. It was suspected
that Harris had a hand in this affair, but
the negro was lynched specifically for his
attack upon Miss Meilwaine.
TAYLOR IN FRANKFORT.
He Spent Sunday in Conference at
Louisville.
Louisville, Ky., March 26.- Governor Tay-.
lor left here to- day for Frankfort, arriving
there at 10 o'clock. He spent yesterday in
consultation with his personal friends, but
nothing of general interest regarding
conferences has transpired. these
