reaching the special train which President
Calloway had placed at their disposal at
Dobbs Ferry, at 9:30. The mourners ar
rived at Fresh Pond at 11:30 o'clock The
.
carriages were driven up to the front entrance
of the crematory, while the hearse
was stopped at the side door, and the cof-
fin was carried by the crematory attendants
into the building. There it remained for a
short time in the presence of the mourn
heers, but the body was not exposed. The
party took places in the columbarium, sur
rounded with urns of other dead which
filled the countless niches in the inner
walls The ashes of Anton Seidl, over
.
whom Colonel Ingersoll had spoken a eulogy
, were at their left. Those of Henry
M. Tabor, who rarely missed a Sunday call
on Colonel Ingersoll, although he was a
supporter of a Presbyterian Church, were
upon their right. The body of Colonel In
gersoll was placed in the furnace shortly
before noon.
The family retreated to the shade of some
trees back of a nearby hotel, and there spent
the weary hours until 5 o'clock, when the
ashes of their dead were delivered to them
in the urn they had brought with them.
The urn, which was bought from Tiffany&
Co., and came recently from Paris, is of
rich bronze. It is ovoid, standing about
a foot high, above a porphyry base six
inches square b two and one- half
inches deep. Up one side and over the top
a sprig of laurel winds; in the body color of
the vase and clinging to the other side is
a cutting of cypress in bronze of a deep
green: On one face of the urn is an inscription
in French which translated reads:
" The urn guards the ashes, the heart the
memory." On the other face is engraved,
" Robert G. Ingersoll." Word has been received
by the family from Quebec that the
Robert G. Ingersoll Free Library is to be
established there in honor of Colonel Inger
soll's services in behalf of freedom of
thought.
A NEGRO LUNATIC LYNCHED.
Suspected of Crime, He Is Chased
Up a Tree and Shot to Death.
New Orleans, July 27.- A negro was dis
covered today in a cornfield at Lindsay in
East Feliciciana. For some unaccountable
reason he was suspected of being Val Bates,
against whom a charge of outrage has been
made. He was chased through several fields
by armed men and finally took refuge in
a tree. A rope was sent for to lynch him.
but the negro climbed down out of the
tree. As he did so he was fired on and
fell dead. His clothing was marked" No.
43." An investigation disclosed the fact that
the dead negro was an innocent lunatic who
had escaped from room No. 43 of the Louis
iana State Insane Asylum at Jackson.
MR. HOBART'S HEALTH.
A Sensational Story That He Has
Cancer of the Stomach Denied.
New York, July 27.- A weekly paper
printed today the statement that" the
Vice President of the United States is suffering
from cancer of the stomach." The
story is absolutely without foundation.
The Vice President is not suffering from
cancer of the stomach, or cancer of anything
se. He has steadily improved in
health since his arrival at the Munro Cottage
at West End, Long Branch. He
drives out every day, takes exercise, meets
friends, and occasionally goes to his home
in Paterson, as he did this week, to attend
to his business affairs. His physicians say
that he is making satisfactory progress toward
complete recovery from the severe
and complicated attack of grip which he
had in Washington in the spring. The attack
was so serious that recovery was slow,
but his physicians expect him to be in his
usual excellent health before the meeting
of the Senate in December. The Vice President
and Mrs. Hobart, and his young son,
Garret A. Hobart, jr., expect soon to visit
the President and Mrs. McKinley at the
Hotel Champlain.
FEUD FACTIONS HAVE ENOUGH.
Bakers, Howards, Whites, and Phil-
pots Agree to Fight No More.
Frankfort, Ky., July 27.- State Inspector
and Examiner C. W. Lester, Governor
Bradley's special agent, who was sent to
Clay county to investigate the Clay county
feud and make a complete report, returned
today and filed his report with the Govern
or. Mr. Lester reports that the feud is
at an end, and goes into details with re
spect to the various factions and their
friends.
Mr. Lester visited the surviving
leaders of both factions of the Bakers,
Howards, Whites, and Philpots.
After extended interviews Mr. Lester was
assured that peace was again restored, and
the factions ere not anxious to renew the
quarrel. Inspector Lester reports that an
extra session of the Legislature is not
necessary, neither was an extra term of
the Clay county Circuit Court. It would be
a mistake to again send soldiers to Clay
county, and it would result in arousing
the factions to indignation. He was assur
that the county authorities would up
hold the law. Governor Bradley has writ
ten an article on his power to declare martial
law, which he maintains he has not.
BROWNS GET THE PENINSULA
.
Their Purpose to Complete a Belt
Line Around Hampton Roads.
Newport News, Va., July 27.- The Peninsula
Railroad today sold its controlling interest
to Alexander Brown& Son, of Balti
more. The consideration is not given, but
it is about$ 300,000. These financiers now
own two electric roads between this city
and Old Point Comfort. It is stated further
that they have consummated deals for the
railroads in the vicinity of Norfolk which
will complete the belt line around Hamp.
ton Roads, and have also purchased the
steamer to ply between Pig Point and New
port News.
Alger off for New England.
Philadelphia, July 27.- General and Mrs.
Alger left the home of their daughter, Mrs.
Bailey, at Thorndale, today for a two
weeks' visit to friends in the New England
States. At the conclusion of the visit they
will return to Thorndale. Both the general
and Mrs. Alger were in good health.
Attractions at Bay Ridge.
Coney Island steeplechase, Ferris wheel, gravity
railway, continuous performance at Bijou Thea
tre, German roof garden, sailboats, bathing, fishing
, and crabbing, and many other attractions
for amusement and etntertainment. Music by
Naval Academy Band. Sea food dinner, 50 cents.
Trains from B.& 0. depot, week days, 9:30
a. m. and 4:30 p. m. Sundays, 9:35 a. m., 1:30
and 3:15 p.. Rate, 50 cents for adults, 25
cents for children m,
