Mob Breaks Into Jail to Lynch
Negro and Is Fired
a Upon.
CARROLLTON, Ga., June 7.- The nerve
of a Georgia Sheriff, Joseph Merrill, to
day upheld the law of the State and
saved the life of a negro from a mob. In
protecting the negro, who was saved from
the gallows only a few hours before
through the efforts of his lawyers, one life
was lost and two men were wounded. The
arrival of the State militia averted
threatened trouble to- night and at 9
o'clock a special train bearing the negro,
whose crime was the murder of a little
white boy whom he found fishing alone,
was speeding toward Atlanta, under
guard.
The man killed in attacking the jail was
George Bennett of Carrollton, and the
wounded men are Thomas Smith, a citizen
of Carollton, and an unknown man,
presumably a farmer. Thomas S. Word,
father of the murdered boy, who was in
the front rank of the would- be lynchers,
was not hit. After Bennett fell Mr. Wood
jumped upon a window sill and exclaimed
dramatically:
" Shoot me, Mr. Sheriff; I would as soon
die now as any time."
Only nine shots were fired and the walls
of the jail show the marks of the bullets.
None of the Sheriff's posse was hit.
Williams, the negro who caused the
trouble, was tried and found guilty of
murdering Otis Word, January 1, 1901, and
sentenced to be hanged to- day. He was.
only this morning refused a new trial,
but his attorneys filed a bill of exceptions
and carried the case to the Supreme
Court.
Jail Door Battered Down.
A large crowd of people had come to
town to witness the hanging, and when it
was learned that an appeal had been
taken to the Supreme Court, delaying the
execution, there was much excited talk,
which crystallized soon after in the form
ation of a mob. At noon the mob made
an assault on the jail. They battered
down the outside door, despite the warn
ing of the Sheriff, and entered the build
ing.
They made a demand on the Sheriff for
the keys to the negro's cell, but were re
fused. With the refusal they began their
advance upon the Sheriff and the few
deputies which he had been able to sum
mon to his aid. They were told to stop
or they would be fired on, but the order
was not obeyed.
Shot Down by Officers.
As they advanced down the corridor
toward the Sheriff the order was given to
fire. Bennett fell, dying almost instantly.
Thomas Word, the father of Williams'
victim, who was in the front of the mob,
was badly shot, as was also an unknown
countryman. The unexpected fight of
the Sheriff and his little posse frightened
the mob, and they retreated outside of the
Jail. Here they broke and ran and were
soon divided into little groups discussing
the event.
Sheriff Merrill at once consulted Judge
Harris of the County Court and it was
decided to call upon Governor Candler for
aid. The Governor was communicated
with by telephone and said he would send
two companies from Atlanta as soon as
they could be assembled.
Governor Acts Promptly.
During the afternoon the mob tele
phoned the situation to friends in the ad
joining towns of Villa Rica and Temple,
and made an appeal for more men to get
possession of the negro. This was communicated
also to Governor Candler, who
soon wired a proclamation to the people
of the county. It was read from the steps
of the Courthouse at 4 o'clock by the
Mayor. The Governor commanded the
people to disperse and said the entire military
and civil forces of the State would
be used to enforce the order if necessary.
The reading of the proclamation apparently
had a good effect, as many people
were seen to mount their horses and leave
town. Much apprehension was felt for
the night, and the Sheriff and city and
county officials, after a consultation, decided
to take the prisoner out of the
county for safe keeping. The Atlanta
militia under command of Major Barker
arrived about 6 o'clock and one hour later
escorted the negro and Sheriff Merrill to
the train, which was soon speeding
ward to Atlanta. south
