DEFECTIVE ADMINISTRATION OF
THE CRIMINAL LAW- LYNCH LAW.
The body politic has an eruptive
disease. The ill humors within break out
on the surface. We hear of Regulators,
of Vigilance Committees, of frontier
murders, and of unpunished wrong and
outrage. From small numbers they have
come to be numerous; from little magnitude
, they come to be giant iniquities;
and the peaceful citizen, as he pursues
his avocations, even in the great cities,
or the distant frontier, knows not how
soon he fall into the hands of pri
may
vate or public Robbers. He wonders
what has happened to cause these com-
motions, and as he walks to his business,
inquires of his neighbor," What is the
matter?" He, who never before thought
much of crime, or disorder, in this happy
country, begins to say with Cowper-
-" My ear is pained,
My soul is sick, with every day's report
of wrong and outrage with which earth is fill'd."
These disorders are not merely skin
deep. They originate in a corruption of
the blood, whose cure is absolutely necessary
before we can cure the disorder.
The final cause of all these disorders is,
that the public sentiment of this country
has been corrupted in regard to the administration
of the Criminal Law. It has
been corrupted by men who are really
humane, and who, by an excess of hu-
manity, have been led to receive and
character.inculcate false views. These false views
have crept into the minds of Legislators,
of Judges and of Jurics, and finally into
Executive officers till the laws which
-
should punish the guilty, can no longer
be executed. In at least four cases out of
five- we speak advisedly- the criminal
has gone free of punishment for want of
witnesses to appear; or, by law prevert-
ed by judges; or, oaths violated by jurors;
or, pardons granted on the petitions of
benevolent citizens! What is the result
of these false opinions and perverted
acts? The result is, new crimes and
new outrages on every side, till the out
raged community take the law into their
own hands, and vindicate Public Justice.
Then we hear good citizens talk loudly
of Law and Order. They see at once
the evil and the horrors of punishing
men by lawless mobs. They call out
the military, and are for settling the matter
with balls and bayonets. This is
very well. It is even a necessity, when
we have lost the authority of government.
it was a necessity for Napoleon to sweep
the streets of Paris with grape- shot; and
it was almost, if not quite, a necessity
for him to drive out the Council of
Ancients, and assume the Military Dictatorship
of France.
But before we arrive at that point, it is
worth while to inquire, whether we can-
uot govern ourselves? In the first place,
let every man who denounces Lynch
Law and Vigilence Committees, inquire
whether he has not been in part the cause
of them? Let him ask whether he has
not stood by, and seen law after law violated
with impunity? Whether he has not
refused to give testimony? Whether he
has signed petitions to the Governor to
pardon some double- dyed villian, or coldblooded
murderer? Whether he has not
sympathized more with the criminal, than
with the poor family, whom he has ruined,
and the society whom he has injured?-
When this class of men,( quite numerous
among the educated and the wealthy,)
ask the Government to protect their lives
and property with balls and bayonets,
they should ask themselzes, What they of
ever did to enforce the law or protect the
victims of robbery and murder?
These sentimentalists in crime, mistake
entirely both the object of the criminal
law, and the real sentiments of the peo- to
ple. Not one man in ten believes the
law ought to be relaxed, or the criminal
pardoned; but the tenth man, filled with
false theories, and sentimential visions,
is active- petitions the legislature to
repeal the law for hanging murderers-
cries out against the inhumanity of pris-
ons- gets on a jury and refuses to con- to
vict- petitions the Governor to pardon or
commute the sentence, and figures in so-
ciety as a great philanthropist, a man of
liberal views and mos humane senti
ments, altogether superior to the vulgar A
people, who believe something in the obligations
of law, reason and religion.
LYNCH LAW arises simply from the want
of law. It is the necessity of a people,
among whom the law is not enforced.-
It is the spontaneous effort of society to
protect itself. It is the boil bursting on
on the surface, to carry off the corrupted
blood within. Let us take some of the
most noted cases in this country, and see
how it has acted. The hanging of the
Vicksburgh gamblers was a moral necessity
, and evidently did good. The law
was against gambling and its kindred
atrocities, but was not enforced till the
gamblers governed the town. Property a
was no longer protected, nor life secure
Society stepped forward and committed.
one great crime to prevent the recurrence
of more. If the law had been enforced
would that crime have happened? Never.
Twenty years ago, MAYTHE, a notorious
criminal, was taken from Williams-
town jail by the farmers of Bourbon
county, Ky., and hung at noonday. To
them it seemed a necessity, and section
of country has had no such criminal
since. The Vigilence Committee of San
Francisco was an apparent necessity of
the day, and no doubt prevented the re-
currence of that unlicensed carnival of
crime which had reigned before.
The moral of all this is evident. Men
institute government for the sole purpose
of protection. If they fail in this govern
ment fails, and they must resort to new
institutions, or new modes of government,
to accomplish their ends. If they be a
free people, they first resort to popular
meetings and popular executions; and, if
finally these fail, they must accept the
sword and the despot. The instinct of
every man is to obtain security- and
this he will have, in some form or other.
The Vigileace Committees, the Regulators
, the Lynch executioners, are all so
many disorderly and defective modes of
doing what the law ought to do. The in-
stincts of the great mass of people, the
conviction of their understanding is, that
crime should be invariably punished.-
They are not less humane, nor less
liberal, than the professed philanthropists,
whose practical efforts end in destroying
the efficiency of the law, and ultimately
undermine the foundationd of society.
There is evidently a disordered, unset-
tled eruptive state of our social system
,,
which demands the serious consideration
of all good citizens. Is this state of
things to continue and grow worse.bers
Some of our disorders may be attributed
to political causes, but not all, nor the
greater part. For the greatest part arise
from the want of morral sentiment to enforce
the laws. The practical result of
this is the defective administration of justo
tice. Our legal institutions are good;
perhaps not always wise, or prudent;
but, in the main, what they ought to be
But there is no certainty in their execu-
tice. If there be not soon a corrreted and
reformed public sentiment, acting through
the law, there will soon be one which
acts without law. The instincts of mankind
are too strong to be set aside by
false theories of government, or metphy
sical questions of lucacy, humane notions
of mercy. Men have come together in
society to pursue their avocations in a
peace and safety, which a state of nature
did not afford them. If they cannot get
this, by the regular laws, and mild government
they will finaly resort to a very
different kind. The worst enemy of a
a free people is unlicensed passion, and
this is just the same in an unpunished
criminal, as it is in an unpunished mob
To prevent the last, we must enforce the
law upon the former. The intelligence,
and the virtue of the people must come
up to the rescue of their own rights.-
They must vindica'e their own capacity
self government by enforcing their
own for laws.- Cin. Gazette.
