FIRST CASE OF LYNCH LAW.
Hanging of a Murderer by His Heels
in the West of Ireland.
So many different versions and explanations
of the term lynch law have
at various times been given and occasionally
are even yet added to, that it
seems fitting to recount the tragic incident
which has since given a name to
many calamitous occurrences not
so
only in our land but on occasion also
in that of others.
The very name of" Lynch" gives the
direct clew to the land of its origin
Ireland. And when we recall the fact
that during the latter part of the seventeenth
century there was comparatively
a large immigration from the
north of Ireland and the south of
Scotland, coming as settlers to the Carolinas
, from which much of this material
spread westward into Kentucky
and Tennessee, and, realizing the
tenacity with which these peoples husband
, nourish and perpetuate their
folklore and traditions, it needs only
to relate the incident which Thackeray
In his" Irish Sketch Book" graphically
recounts to show how natural it was
to apply the memories and such a term
to the individual exercise of justice
and punishment.
Thackeray, in the book referred to
and in chapter 1, which treats of Gal-
way, thus speaks of an occurrence
within its precincts which in 1842
and probably does to this day- bore
the grewsome" memento" so grimly de
scribed in the words following:
" Then there is Lombard street, otherwise
called Deadman's lane, with
tawad and crossbones and a me- a
mento mori over the door where the
dreadful tragedy of the Lynches was
acted in 1493. If Galway is the Rome
of Connaught James Lynch Fitzste
phen, the mayor, may be considered as
the Lucius Junius Brutus thereof.
Lynch had a son who went to Spain
as master of one of his father's ships.
and being of a wild, extravagant tara.
there contracted debts, drew bills and
alarmed father's correspondent,
who sent a clerk and nephew of his
own back in young Lynch's ship to
Galway to settle accounts. On the fif
the
teenth day young Lynch threw
Spaniard overboard. Coming back to
his own country, he reformed his life a
little and was on the point of marrying
one of the Blakes, Burkes or Bodkins
or others, when a seaman who
sailed with him, being on the point of
death, confessed the murder in which
he had been a participator.
" Hereon the father, who was chief
magistrate of the town, tried his son
and sentenced him to death, and when
the clan Lynch rose in a body to res
cue the young man and divert such a
disgrace from the family it is said that
Fitzstephen Lynch hanged the culprit
with his own hands. A tragedy called
" The Wa.den of Galway' has been
written on the subject and was acted
few nights before my arrival."- New
a York Times.
