THE SUPPRESSED TESTIMONY.
There is hardly any room for doubt that
Old Brown's fate was made up in caucus the
day he was captured, and that he is approach.
ing his end at a hand- gallop, through the ave
nuo of judicial murder. Our latest advices
from Charlestown make it palpably evident
that the old man's protest against" the mock
ery of a trial" has been unavailing, and that
the Chivalry who have him in charge have
even added theft to the other indecencies of
the Court room, whereby Brown is deprived
of the means of procuring witnesses. In all
matters pertaining to slavery and slave property
the code of Judge Lynch is the common
law of Virginia, and its operation in the pres
ent case is deferred a few days, merely to give
time for the Holy Inquisition consisting of
Mason. Faulkner, Boteler, Vallandigham, the
big dog of the New York Herald, and the lit
ile dog of the New York Times- to torture or
manufacture testimony out of the prisoners to
the damage of their political opponents. As
soon as this mine is worked dry, we may look
for the execution of Brown and his misguided
fellows- unless the political influence of Gov.
Willard, of Indiana, shall save his brother- in
law, Cook, from the doom which would other
wise be in store for him.
Granted, that Brown has been guilty of a
capital offence. Granted, that he- is- not, as
those who know him best aver, a stark mad
man, fit food for lunatic asylums. Granted
that a fair trial would send him to a murderer's
death. What is to be gained by crowding the
old man to the gallows in advance of such
means of defense as are allowed in civilized
communities to horse thiores and midnight assassins
? What end, is to be served by steal
ing his money and cutting off his means of
procuring witnesses and counsel? Is it possible
that no bloodslied can be traced to the
door of John Brown individually, if the whole
history of the transaction be brought before
the jury? Is it possible that the old man.
lunatic though he be, has not made himself
liable to the death penalty, if his crime is con
. strued by the strict letter of the law and the
evidence? If the functionaries who have
Brown in charge do not wish the country to
believe that important facts mitigating his of
fence are kept out of sight- that important
testimony vindicating his personal conduct at
Harper's Ferry is suppressed- that he is sacri
Aced to judicial malice rather than to violated
law- let them look to it that the barbarian haste
with which he is being hurried to a verdict
of guilty is currected. It is not impossible that
Brown kept his own skirts clear of blood.
It is not impossible that his worst crime was
that of manslaughter, or some offence only
punishable by imprisonment. We do not haz
ard the opinion that such is the fact, but we
Bay that the public mind will assuredly drift to
that conclusion, if the unseemly haste.
which Brown is being driven to the gibbet with
is persevered in to the end. If there were
any great public peril incurred by a few
day's delay in the finding of a verdict, we
might seo a necessity in the course which is
being pursued. If there were any remote dan
ger that the ends of justice would be unsatisfied,
we might acknowledge the fitness of bringing
the man into court with his sabre cuts and
bayonet thrusts all fresh- himself so weak as
to be unable to stand. upright- but eren in
---
such contingency we could not admit the right.
fulness of robbing him of the means of procuring
testimony which he deemed essential to
his defence, and hurrying him to fate with
half a trial. his
