SENSATIONS AT DEATH.
The Events of a Lifetime Repeated in the
Brain at Hanging or Drowning.
In Blackwood some curious examples
are given by the writer of a well-
known phenomenon- the fact that the
events of a lifetime will pass some
times in a moment through the mind
of a person who is on the point of
death by drowning or suffocation.
Speaking of the death of Lord Ponson-
by, who was hanged by the mob in
Paris in 1791, and cut down before life
was extinct, the author says:
He( Lord Ponsonby) proceeded to
give an account of his sensation on re
turning to consciousness. He could
not have been actually suspended in
mid- air more than a few seconds, and
yet in that brief space of time all the
events of his past life passed through
his mind. It is true that his life to the
date had not been a very eventful one,
being only 19 years of age, but every
past sensation was renewed in all its
freshness. It is also remarkable that
he did not at the time experience any
sensation of fear, while, he added, his
was an essentially nervous temperament
.
This remarkable mental power of
calling up the past in moments of suspended
animation have heard frequently
mentioned. One was the case
of Count Zichy, in the revolution of
1848 in Vienna. He was caught by
the savage mob, hung like Lord Pon-
souby in the middle of the street, when
his own regiment of dragoons charged
down and cut the cords as he was
swinging in the air. He fell to the
ground and was supposed to be dead;
but his recovery was a very different
matter from Lord Ponsonby's, for he
had suffered agonies, and for ten days
had four men constantly with him.
He describes exactly the same sensations
as Lord Ponsonby; the scroll of
what was a much longer life was un
rolled, even the smallest detail rushed
back on his memory; he had the same
fearlessness at the moment, but he felt
all the horrors of the agony when the
danger was past.
A most interesting little book called
" Admiral Beaufor's Experience of
Drowning," bears testimony to this
seemingly universal experience in sud
den danger. Thought succeeded
thought, says the Admiral,
with a
rapidity that not only is indescribable,
but probably inconceivable by any one
who has not himself been in a similar
situation the event that had just
taken place, the effect it would have on
my family, and a thousand circumstances
, connected with home, traveling
backward in time in retrograde
succession." All this proves that duration
of life does not depend on
hours, but on the number impressions
conveyed to the brain. of
