LYNCH LAW ADVOCATED
Man That Nominated Bryan for the Presica
deney Gires Reasons for It.
Atlanta, Ga., July 3- In the Georgia Bar
Association meeting today the singular
spectacle was presented of the most distinguished
lawyers of the state giving their to
indorsement to lynch law. The symposium
was led by Hon. Hal T. Lewis, known all
over the Union as having nominated Mr.
Bryan in the Chicago convention. He
said:
" Lynchings in Georgia are almost invari
' ably the result of horrible outrages perpetrated
upon helpless and defenseless wo
men. It is because the people are appre
,
hended that such a culprit with proof of
- guilt would escape punishment if left in the
custody of the law? No one doubts that
under our system as it stands his convie
: t: on would be assured. Is it because an
unreasonable delay in trial and execution
: is apprehended? No one doubts the readi
.ness of any judge in Georgia to call a special
term of the court in such cases, whether
the welfare of society demands it. Is it
because of an unusual spirit of lawlessness
: among the white people of Georgia that
they would perpetrate or permit such mob
violence? I dare say that the crimina:
. record of this class of her people will com
pare with that of any state or nation on the
globe. Why, then, is lynch law more frequently
practiced here than in the north
and west? It is because the crime to which
; we have referred is more frequent here and
the danger of its perpetration greater. He
that supposes this evil can be corrected
by legislation simply does not understand
and appreciate the situation, especially in
: our rural districts.
" This crime is committed by the negro,
and, strange to say, he selects a white vic-
tim, as if his brutal passion was fired with
an element of malignity against the Cau-
. casian race. The laboring farmer often
has to leave his white wife and children at
home, beyond call of neighbors or reach of
help. When the news of the outrage
spreads every man within the sphere of its
influence takes it home to himself, not
knowing when the happiness of his home
: circle may be forever blighted by an injury
at more fearful than death. The Anglo- Sax
on blood that courses through the veins is
inflamed to a white heat. He reasons that
such a criminal at large is more to be
dreaded than the most ferocious beast that
ever roamed the forest; that he has placed
himself beyond the pale of the law or
anciergy. He is lynched because his victim
should not be subjecaed to the further hu
millation of detailing the crime which she
can hardly whisper to her husband er
, breathe to her parents. He is lynched be
conviction in the public mind
cause of the
that this is the only effectual way of pre
of
of the offense. He is
venting a repetition
for less
lynched, not because the lynchers have
regard for law and order, but because they
it have more concern for the sancity of home
and the protection of its inmates.
of such a sen
of" To attempt a correction
- timent, such anxieties, such feeling by
. statute would prove as futtle as an effort
to overcome the fury of the cyclone or to
flashes from the stor
prevent the lightning
cloud."
These sentiments were indorsed by such
men as Colonel Thomas, Hon. W. C. Glenn
run and others, and only called for one spirited
,
speech on the other side from Colonel L.
member of congress
K. Hammond formely
from the Atlanta, district.
