BLOODSHED AND
DAY OF RIOT
AND NEGROES FIGHT BETWEEN
WHITES IN NORTH CAROLINA.
and Killed Eight Negroen Were
Three Whites Seriously Injured
War- Pub Race Result of a as a
Negro News House of a lishing
Building the Wrecked and paper
Fired- New City Government Re
Called Military Out Order- storing
in Policemen Sworn Special and
No Further Trouble Anticipated.
Wilmington, N. C., Nov. 12.- After a
day of bloodshed and turbulence Wil
mington has subsided into comparative
peacefulness. Eight negroes were
killed and three white men wounded
during the day, one of them, William
Mayo, scriously. The city is now in
the hands of a new municipal govern
ment and law and order is being established
. The first act of the new government
was to swear in 250 special
policemen, chosen from the ranks of
the white citizens. Further trouble of
a general or serious nature is not expected
. The trouble commenced at 8:30
yesterday morning when armed
an
body of citizens numbering about 400,
and led by Representative Waddell,
chairman of the committee of twenty
five, proceeded to the publishing house
of a negro newspaper, the Record, to
wreck it. The editor of this paper had
published an article
white women, and a mass meeting of
citizens ordered his expulsion from the
city within twenty- four hours and the
removal of his press. Fifteen leading
negroes were called in by the commit
tee of twenty- five and directed to noti
fy the chairman by 7:30 yesterday
morning whether they would agree to
the removal of the press. They were
informed that no answer was 12
turned the press if would be demolished,
No answer was received by the chair-
man, and after waiting an hour the
citizens proceeded in a body and de-
melished the fixtures of the printing
offee. The building was also fired and
gutted. The leaders say that this action
was the work of irresponsible persons
, and as soon as the fire was dis
covered the fire department was called
to extinguish it. of
printing office created a great com
nation among the negroes of the town.
The rumor spread that the whites
were going to burn and murder in the
negro quarter. This rumor reached
the negro employes of a cotton com
press pubering 300 or 400, who quit
work and hung about the streets in
manifest terror. Other parties congregated
in the negro section and it was
in one of that the first tragedy
was enacted these. The men were ordered
to disperse. They declined, and it is
claimed, fired into the whites, who re
turned the attack. Three negroes were
killed and two white men were wound
ed slightly. During the afternoon
there were other affairs of this kind
eiget negroes were killed in the
and disturbed sections.
