OHIO
HE IS CONFIDENT
President Sends Message of
Congratulation to Convention.
Nothing Can Defeat Democratic
Party Now, He Says.
San Francisco, July, 3.- President
Wilson, in a telegram to National
Chairman Homer$. Cummings, which
was read today to the convention, declared
that the course the Democratic
party had taken with respect to the
League, of Nations filled him" with
perfect confidence that it will go from
victory to victory until the traditions
of the republic are vindicated."
This is a conquering purpose and
nothing can defeat it," the president
The message, was
reply to one of appreciation and greet
ings from the convention, follows:
The White House, 3.
Hon. Homer S. Cummings, Chairman Democratic
National Committee, San Francisco
.
It was with the most grateful appreciation
that I received the message from the
convention so kindly transmitted by you.
It is a source of profound pride with me
to receive such evidence of the confidence
of the great party which derives its principles
direct and untainted from the found
ers of our government and the authors of
our liberty. While our opponents are endeavoring
to isolate us among the nations
of the world we are following the vision of
the founders of the republic who promised
this world the counsel and leadership of
matters that affected human liberty and
the justice of law. That promise we deliberately
renewed when we entered the
great war for human freedom and we now
keep faith with those who died in Flanders
fields to redeem, it. That I should have been
accorded leadership in such great matters
fills my heart with gratitude and pride and
the course the party has taken fills me
a perfect will go
from victory to victory until the true traditions
of the republic are vindicated and
the world convinced not only of our
strength and prowess but of our integrity
and our devotion to the highest ideals.
This is a conquering purpose and nothing
can defeat it.
WOODROW WILSON.
SUES FOR TOPEKAN'S DEATH.
Would Collect$ 7,500 From Duluth for
Mob Action Against Negro.*
July
Duluth, Minn., 3.- Elisha
Scott, negro attorney of Topeka, Kan ..
has filed suit here against the city of
Duluth on behalf of Clifford Jackson.
of Topeka, to collect$ 7,500 damages
for the death of his son, who was one
of the three negroes lynched here
June 15. The city officers are charged
with negligence in not furnishing
young Jackson sufficient protection.
Sinn Fein Shoot Policeman,
Dublin, July 3.- Police Sergeant
Tobin was shot dead and Constable
Ready severely wounded when a
party of four policemen was fired
upon from ambush near Ballinore.
Tipperary, today The other two
policeman escaped..
