" Success Say We to the Klux!"
FRIEND
A calls to my attention an editorial
paragraph appearing in 1868, in
John Grant's temporary organ.
It reads
We learn that a Klan has been organized in
this place and that the faithful are holding night
ly meetings for the purpose of conferring the
honors of the mystic brotherhood upon such
worthy applicants as may seek admission within
their walls. Success say we to the Ku Klux.
Augusta was the place, and March 25, 1868,
was the time.
The Ku Klux were the Vigilantes who rose,
lawlessly, to defend Southern homes, South
ern women. Southern civilization.
The Ku Klux, lawlessly, combined to whip
unruly negroes, and to lynch those who were
a menace to the country.
In South Carolina Ben Tillman was one
of the leaders- and so were Hampton and
Butler.
In Georgia. Robert Toombs and his son
in- law, General Dudley DuBose, were at the
head of the Ku Klux.
General N. B. Forrest, of Memphis, Tennessee
, was the inspiration of the whole
thing- a lawless but necessary organization
fer self- defense.
Thousands of dangerous negroes were
whipped, and other thousands shot!
It had to be done!
My father helped do it. I'm proud to say.
Now, in those days, the fathers and grand
fathers of the Columbia county men who
were threatened by John Grant, rode down
to Augusta, many a time and helped regulate
matters.
They helped to chase the carpet- baggers
away, to subdue the uppety nigger, and to
restore Home Rule.
of the Catholic Church, Mr. Wilson has repudiated
all the promises made to Catholics by the state
department in December, through Mr. Bryan. It
is true that another secretary of state succeeded
Mr. Bryan, but Catholics expected the govern
ment to stand by its pledge, and not recognize a
ruler of Mexico a man who has forfeited every
title, not only to recognition as leader of a peo*
ple, but even to respect from decent men.
" Mr. Wilson stands at the bar of this country,
and he must answer for his actions. He has ignored
the voice of the greatest religious body in
this country, which asked from him nothing
more than it had a right to demand under the
constitution of our republic.
" Meanwhile, we do not hesitate to predict thai
the utter weakness of Mr. Wilson's administration
, especially as regards his Mexican policy,
which has culminated, as everyone could see it
would, in the recognition of Carranza, will,
through that very act, be exposed to the world
for the utter fallacy that it is; for the veriest in
fant in statecraft should have intelligence enough
to see, that such a man as Carranza can never
restore peace and order and stability of govern
ment in Mexico."
Is the Catholic Church in politics?
O No!
The only concern of the Catholic clergy is
to preach Christ, live like Christ, return good
for evil, love their enemies and do good to
those that hate them.
That's why old Rojas compelled the President
of Panama to break his word with the
American Protestants; that's why they were
killing and burning Protestants in Mexico so
late as 1895; that's why they had President
Madero betrayed and killed; that's why they
had Mayor Gaynor assassinated; that's why
they had William Black murdered; that's why
they had Canalejas and Ferrer foully slain;
and that's why they wanted a long and bloody
war in Mexico.
Just let them keep on!
They'll arouse the 85,000,000 non- Catholics
of this country, before long, and then they'll
wish they had paid more attention to Chris
tian virtues, and less to rotten, despotic,
crcaching politics. en
