MAYOR OMAHA LYNCH TO ATTEMPT
THE attempted hanging of mayor Edward P. Smith of
Omaha, Nebraska, by a mob that the mayor was try-
ing to prevent from lynching a negro, is a new monstra-
tion of mass violence. In the history of lynchings there
are few instances of attacks on public officials. Police
chiefs, sheriffs, judges and mayors, trying to prevent
lynchings usually have won their point or have been
pushed aside, more or less respectfully. Such injuries as
they have received have commonly been accidental and
incidental.
The stringing up of mayor Smith, therefore, showed a
greater degree of lawlessness than mobs usually are guilty
of. It was not accidental. Men can't be hanged by other
men by accident. Doubtless the governor of the state or
the judges of the state supreme court would have suffered
the same fate as the mayor of Omaha had they been in his
place. Opposing such blind mob passion, no public offi
cial would have stood a chance,
This incident emphasizes the temporary hatred of law
and order which is one of the characteristics of a mob,
bent on lynching. This mob knew its intent to be mur-
derous and was quite cognizant of the lawlessness of its
whole procedure, yet it was so determined to carry out its
purpose that it was ready to kill, and did attempt to kill,
the highest public official of a big city who did no more
than try to uphold the law in accordance with the provisions
of the law, at the dictate of his own conscience, in
fulfillment of his sworn duty. The mob also fought, and
was willing to kill, the police of Omaha who were also ful
filling their sworn duty in trying to keep the negro out
of the mob's hands, save the mayor's life and restore order
in the city.
Why did this mob break loose? Why are lynchings so
common in the United States? What shall be done to pre-
vent them?
Lynchings of negroes accused of attacks on women are
common because the acts themselves are frequent and be
they infuriate a part of the public. Their anger is
willing cause to brook no investigation of the circumstances so
ish accordingly, but the mere fact that there are obstacles
furnishes no reason why there should not be investigation
and punishment. Hard punishment will be a preventive
of lynchings while improvements in law enforcement fol
lowing the commission of crimes will remove much of the
rancor that finds expression in mob spirit.
Meanwhile, this lynching at Omaha stands as one of
most disgraceful occurrences that ever blackened a
the city's name.
probably the result of the super- fury engendered in the
mob because of the nine hours' resistance which the authorities
had offered. The burning of the courthouse and
the resulting destruction of thousands of unreplaceablé
records were incidental and comparatively minor acts of
lawlessness.
Lynchings into which the racial element does not enter
may be ascribed a little less to hot impulse and a little
more to impatience with the dilatory processes of the law
and the many loopholes which the law affords to unscrupulous
lawyers to secure the liberty of defendants, however
guilty they actually may be. Our laws, admirable in the
main, sometimes offer technical advantages to the guilty
and sharp lawyers and easy going juries round out a combination
that can make a trial a farce and test the patience
of a justice loving public. If there were more swift
and adequate administration of justice after the commission
of crimes, there would be fewer lynchings. This is
not a defence of lynchings but a simple statement of fact.
Mobs often are formed, break laws and risk their own
lives in order to execute someone whom they believe to be
guilty of crime when they would not do so had they not
the uneasy feeling that otherwise the guilty might go un
punished. We know very well that the American people
have a high regard for law and order and yet lynchings
seem to be almost unknown outside this country. Either
we have less self restraint than other people, which we
are loth to believe, or we have a mass of conflicting laws
whereby the guilty may profit and have profited to such
an extent that the people have been moved to take the
administration of justice out of the hands of the courts.
This is lamentable and the more so because the mobs in
each instance have disgraced themselves, shamed their
states and cast discredit on their country in the estimation
of foreign peoples.
As to punishment, it is hard to punish adequately be
cause of the difficulty of fixing blame. It usually is not
difficult to discover the leaders, but the leaders more often
than not merely give the mop its first impulse, like start
ing a great stone rolling down hill. What happens after
ward is usually a manifestation of mass impetus, an aggregation
of efforts which each individual effort plays a
minor part. That in is why it is hard to fix blame and pun
