By GEORGE PADMORE.
The acute conflict centered around Gastonia, does not simply ex
press another phase of the class struggle on the American battle front
of world capitalism, but also symbolizes in a far reaching and significant
form events making for the emancipation of millions of oppressed
and brutally persecuted Negroes in the South.
Gastonia is merely the beginning of a series of class battles which
are destined to take place throughout the newly industrialized South.
We have already seen the workers in action in New Orleans; Eliza
bethton, Tennessee; Marion, North Carolina; and the various mining
sections of West Virginia. Sharper and more bitterly fought out struggles
will occur as the class consciousness of the black and white work
ers of Dixie become aroused by the very nature of the intensive process
of capitalist rationalization, which means the worsening of their present
horrible standard of living. The condition of these southern workers
represent the very lowest among the American working class. The
primitive life which both the Negroes and poor whites are reduced to,
can only be compared with that of the colonial and semi- colonial toilers
in China, India, Africa, the West Indies and Latin America.
It is out of these class conflicts which will sweep over the South
with greater rapidity than most of us anticipate, that the Negro and
white workers will come to realize their class relations in the present
social order. In proportion as they recognize that despite their racial
differences, they are both members of the proletariat, will they be able
to fight effectively in the common struggles of the working class
against the capitalist overlords. This unity of purpose will be the
most powerful force in breaking through the age long prejudices be
tween the workers of both races. Herein lies the greatest hopes of
the Negro masses in their struggles for self- determination. Let us not
deceive ourselves that the eradication of race prejudice will take place
over night, but on the other hand, it must come about as a result of
the social forces propelling both groups in the same direction and
throwing them in the struggle against their class enemy- capitalism.
For years the capitalist oppressors of the South have used the
race issue as their most effective instrument to maintain their privileged
position. Like the captalst class of czarst Rusisa, the white
ruling class of Dixie have been able until now to inflame the poor
whites against the blacks and in this way withdraw the attention of
the workers from the class nature of society. In the czar's days, the
Russian workers and peasants were always made to believe that the
Jewish masses were the cause for their poverty, and in this way led
to carry out bloody pogroms against a helpless minority. Similarly,
the Southern capitalists and their hangers- on- the preachers, politicians
, editors and teachers- have taught the white workers that their
poverty is caused by the Negroes. With this belief inculcated in the
minds of the workers it was therefore easy to incite them into lynch
ing mobs.
Gastonia shows that the workers will no longer be fooled by the
deceptive propaganda of their oppressors. Present events indicate the
fighting spirit of the masses.
Gastonia has already thrown to the forefront several burning
issues. Chief among these, it has dramatized in the boldest aspect
the viciousness of the ruling class and the role of the capitalist state
during strikes. Thousands of these southern workers who only yesterday
suffered from the illusion that the government was their" pro
tector," today are able to see for themselves that the police, the state
militia, and other defenders of" law and order," are the chief agents
of the bosses and mill owners.
Early in 1929, the National Textile Workers' Union, a left wing
crganization which grew out of the betrayals of the United Textile
Workers' Union affiliated with the A. F. of L., and controlled by a
group of labor fakers who style themselves the Muste" progressives,"
invaded the South under the leadership of Fred Beal, a stalwart trade
unionist and Communist. After a few months of preliminary work
among the workers in the Loray Mill of Gastonia a strike was called.
Despite the betrayals of the A. F. of L. unions in the past, the workers
goaded by the" stretch out" system, long hours, and starvation wages
which hardly exceeded$ 12 for adults and$ 5 for children per week of
69 hours- responded to the appeal of the new left wing union leaders
and came out on strike. No sooner had the workers left the mills and
organized their picket lines were they confronted with the state militia
called in to break the strike by Governor Max Gardner, a mill owner
and one of the richest men in the state.
These Anglo- Saxon workers, who for generations have been taught
by the ruling class to consider the militia as a special force to keep
the" niggers" in their place, for the first time realized that whenever
they dared to demand better conditions that they too would be shot
down like dogs alongside of the black workers.
During the course of the strike it became necessary for the union
to also organize some Negro workers employed in the mills around
Gastonia and Bessemer City. Loyal to their program of full social,
political and economic equality for the Negroes, the organizers immediately
began to tackle what has always been considered the most
delicate problem in the South- the organization of Negro and white
workers into the same union. The A. F. of L. has never attempted to
undertake this task. Rather, they have always pursued the line of
least resistance by leaving the black workers unorganized, and in the
few instances where they did organize them they set them apart in
Jim- Crow locals. These militant trade unionists, despite their knowl
edge of the slave traditions of the South, and fully aware of the fact
that the business men and their lackeys would exploit the stand taken
on behalf of the Negroes, nevertheless refused to surrender their positions
. Their heroism in the face of mob law and the lynching appeals
of the press will never be forgotten by the American workers. Their
courage surpassed that of the abolitionists. Their's was a mission to
emancipate not only Negroes but white workers as well from the fet
ters of wage slavery.
" The Gastonia Gazette," owned by the mill bosses, issued appeal
after appeal to lynch Beal and the other organizers. This paper tried
its best to play up race prejudice against these men and women who
openly championed the rights of Negroes in North Carolina.
In keeping with its policy, the" Gazette" carried news that the
union was controlled by Communists hated" god" and loved
" niggers." who
The business men and the preachers- a class that can always be
found on the side of reaction- called upon the workers to forget the
fact that they and their families were being shot down by the gunmen
of the mill owners, and to unite with the" respectable" citizens to rid
the town of the dirty" foreigners." Reailzing that the appeals were
in vain, that the workers refused to be stampeded into a lynching mob,
the reactionary forces organized a fascist battallion called the" committee
of one hundred" and set out to take the lives of the strike leaders
themselves.
During the raid on the strike headquarters by the" committee of
one hundred" headed by the police, a very significant thing happened
which in itself shows the tremendous spirit of class solidarity between
the white and the black workers which Gastonia has already brought
into being. This new attitude of class alliance was also reflected in the
speeches made by the southern delegates of the recent T.U.U.L. convention
in Cleveland.
Otto Hall, a Negro organizer for the textile union, was on his
way from Bessemer City to Gastonia on the night of the raid in question
. The wwhite workers realizing the grave danger to which Hall
was exposed if he happened to get into Gastonia that night, formed
a body guard and went out to meet Hall and warned him to keep away.
They met Hall two miles out of town and took him in a motor car to
Charlotte where they collected enough money among themselves to pay
his railroad fare to New York. No sooner had Hall embarked on the
train a mob broke into the house where he hid before his departure.
It was only the timely and prompt action of these white workers that
saved the life of their Negro comrade.
One can easily imagine why these fascists were so anxious to get
hold of Hall. As a Negro it would have been very easy to accuse him
of some alleged crime and thereby" justify" their action of lynching
him. After that, the class nature of the Gastonia struggle would have
been diverted into one of a racial issue leading to the wholesale lynch
ings of the white Communists, the champions of equality for the
blacks.
The Negro workers, together with the white workers of America,
must answer this challenge of the capitalist class by mass protest ac
tion until the revolutionary fighters now on trial at Charlotte are freed
from the clutches of the mill barons.
We can already deduct several valuable lessons from Gastonia in
relation to the working class in general and the Negro in particular.
( 1) The struggle immediately brings on the order of the day
the right of the workers to defend themselves. This must be the central
issue for us, for as indicated, the workers will engage in more and
more such class battles in the near future, during which fascist ele
ments such as the" committee of one hundred" would be mobilized
against the strikers. We cannot surrender the right of self defense,
ctherwise we will be simply inviting wholesale massacre of the work
ing class.
( 2) Race prejudice is not a geographical feature of American
capitalist society. It is everywhere, although more bitterly entrenched
in the South, because of its semi- ffeudal remnants. As the process of
industrialization proceeds and the Negroes and poor whites are drawn
from the rural communities into the industrial centers they will be
forced to discard the ideology of the past and to orientate themselves
to their new environment. This process of urbanization will bring them
together and out of these contacts they will learn to recognize that
both groups are the slaves of the bosses. They will further learn
through their everyday experiences that the employers foster race
prejudice in order to keep them apart and thereby exploit them more
easily.
( 3) The new class battles which will increasingly break out will
necessitate the application of new methods of class warfare. We have
already realized that the antiquated Jim Crow craft unions fostered
by the A. F. of L. must be displaced by new industrial unions under
the militant leadership of the Communists and the left wing T.U.E.L.
Every battle will present us with new lessons in class tactics and
methods of struggle. We must therefore be always on the alert to
recognize our weak and strong points. Rigid self- criticism must be
indulged in, in order to immediately correct our mistakes and steel our
fighting forces so that all advantageous positions gained by the workers
will be consolidated.
( 4) A systematic ideological campaign against white chauvinism
must be carried on among the workers as well as within the Party,
ranks. There is still a tremendous underestimation
of Negro work
among some of our comrades. Up till now too little serious attention
has been given to this phase of our activities. The T.U.U.L. convention
marks a new effort, which, however, must noww end merely in
resolutions. The large Negro delegation shows tha twe are capable of
winning the black workers to our banner if we ourselves carry on
systematic work among them. These Negro workers, as pointed out
by the Comintern over and over again, represent revolutionary potentialities
which it will be criminal for us to neglect for the social revolution
. We must therefore intensify our work among them, and draw
them not only into the new unions but also into the ranks of the Party.
( 5). We must popularize our slogans of full social, political, and
economic equality for Negroes more than we have done in the past.
The most effective means of doing this is through our press, especially
the" Negro Champion," which should be developed into the mass organ
of the Negro workers. In districts and centers where large groups of
Negroes are employed especially in the centers of the basic industries
special leaflets and bulletins dealing in a concrete way with their
everyday problems should be distributed at regular intervals. The
Negro press can also be utilized to a greater extent then some of our
comrades recognize. In order to do this the Crusader News Service
should be subsidized.
Because of the peculiar position of the Negro petty- bourgeoisie and
intellectuals, they too, are compelled to support our slogans of equality
for the Negro workers or else expose their reactionary role before the
masses. Experience has taught that these slogans of equality mean
more to the Negro working class to the black bourgeoisie and its
middle class hangers- on, because they than already enjoy a certain privileged
I SAW IT
by
HENRI BARBUSSE
Translated by Brian Rhys MYSELF
Reprinted, by permission, from" I Saw It Myself" by Hearl Barbusse,
pablished and copyrighted by E. P. Dutton& Co., Inc. New York.
Blood in the Oil Cans
( Continued)
" THE secretary standing there, as silent and motionless as the tele
phone receiver, thereupon said,' All right, sir.'
" It was an order this man had given, for he was one of today's
world emperors, even though they did call him' sir' by an old deme
cratic custom.
" Some time after, in that same year 1923, there came a day when
the chiefs of the tribe sat waiting in their gayest clothes for one, by
name Great Heart, who was to go out hunting with them. Great Heart
was late, an utterly unusual thing with Redskins, who are mad on
punctuality. The end of it was that Great Heart never turned up. So
they went off to his wigwam in Indian file and found him in the death
throes, his face terribly distorted as though from inside, surrounded
medicine men. his
frantic after
women and And soon
by screeching
mighty frame, which looked enormous as it lay stretched out, had
breathed its last.
O" Poisoned he had been beyond all doubt, but whose hand had
poured the drug and whose the arm that guided the hand? Those who
knew betroyed no sign. Great Heart was one of the petroleum field
proprietors. So now there were only twenty- five.
" And the very next thing that happened was a hunting accident,
which very nearly brought them down to twenty- four.
" There was a crowd of them- Redskins and Pale Faces- chasing
the quarry. One of the white hunters following behind fired a shot
and sent his bullet into the thigh of the Indian galloping on ahead of
him, instead of into.... Damn clumsy fellow!
#
" WHERE are the good old days when it was so easy for the bosses
to get rid of twenty- five superfluous men? In this generation you
can only do that sort of thing in wartime, and it was peace time then,
worse luck!
" One of my pals, whose head was a regular box of tricks, said:
' What about a conspiracy? Supposing we get' em mixed up in a conspiracy
to undermine the Government and Civilization in general?"
You know how often the conspiracy stunt's used in all countries; sure
thing, mops' em up every time. You discover a conspiracy, with all
sorts of horrible details, and that not only does in the undesirables but
makes all honest citizens say:' They deserved what they got,' and,
' What a good Government we have!'
" To work up a conspiracy all you need, as you know, is one or
two artists- handwriting experts, as you might say, to prepare the
incrinimating documents, and a few eloquent preachers to set the ball
rolling towards national independence or anarchy. You bet we had
' em both within easy reach, and soon we had persuasive fellows at
work amnog the petroleum tribe, patiently explaining to the Indians
how much it would be to thier interest if they shook off the oppressive
yoke of the Americans; for instance, they could have a bomb( a receipt
for one was offered) nad use it to blow up some public monument in
the district.
" But they were up against it. The Redskins wouldn't take on,
the swine! And yet no one was asking them to go right through with
it; all that was wanted was that they should show a bit of interest in
the idea. But it was no go. They wouldn't tumble to it, and stuck
pretty close together.
" AND actually this happened: our very best sedition man used up so
" AND
much spittle shouting out revolutionary doctrines that he went
off his' chump, by which I mean that he turned revolutionary in earnest.
Would you believe it? Here was a fellow who had always been squarely
dealt with by the rich, and blest if he doesn't wear arrow- head suiting
now, all because he expressed revolutionary opinions rather more loudly
than he should.
" And so there were still twenty- five owners left, rolling in wealth,
and honest Injuns at that! 9
" You've heard of the Ku Klux Klan? They're a very respectable
crowd; lots of rich men's sons, in particular, and young bloods out for
sport and excitement, who've banded together in the South, first with
the idea of knocking out Catholics and lynching negroes, and next,
as their programme of reform grew wider in scope, with an eye to 1
keeping the upper hand over the scum who claim to live on equal terms
with acquired wealth. These Protestant Patriots can boast, like the
Fascist gentlemen- they're the Ynakee brand- of a certain number of
acts which you can describe, if you like, as crimes, and, in addition to
that, of picturesque processions in which they figure in white hoods.
' Well, they got up one of these processoins in the already presentable
town stretching along the line of petroleum wells which look
so like skeleton towers. The Indians were looking on. It reminded
them of their ancestral ceremonies on a bigger and blacker scale. But
when the procession was over, somehow or other- why was never dis
covered- a scrimmage began. Colts were popping right and left.
Bullets whistled in dozens past hoods and police helmets. When the
excitement died down, there were three citizens lying on the ground.
They were three Indians- three petroleum field proprietors. So now
there were only twenty- two.
THIS
affair led to some uneasiness and even to a certain amount of
"
unrest. To clear the air and to give them something else to think
about, the Company, always anxious to keep every man amused and
happy( seeing in it, too, perhaps, a perfectly legitimate publicity
stunt) decided to' shoot' a film in the district. This film was to be
made with the help of Indians, workmen, employees, and the entire
population, grouped round two film stars- a splendid star of the masculine
order and a dazzling light of the female species.
" It was then," said Billy Pew( proudly his voice rose one point),
" that I came on the scene.
" The whole business was put in my hands. I should explain that
by this time- that's three years ago- I was a film producer.
' I got hold of a good scenario. As they made no bones about the
Dollars, I went to the biggest f all the scenari men. His name ...
let's see .... I can't remember it for the moment, but you know it
sure enough. He wrote me up a peach of a thing. The title alone was
miles out of the ordinary and quite sensational! -The Virgin of Tulsa.
You know what a genius the Americans have for films. The most
splendid and original of all ideas come from them. The big swell I
had gone to had surpassed himself and I was the proud owner of a
scenario unrivalled for intensity and novelty by any other. Judge for
yourself: A young white girl is carried off by some Indians who are
annoyed by the industrial enterprises of a millionaire philanthropist,
father to the pretty young lady.
*
" TO horse, then! Off they go in pursuit of the ravishers, riding away
with their prey. They must be caught before they scalp the
golden- haired heroine. Now, all the interest and originality of this
super film lay in this chase through all kinds of obstacles. They pass
through floods, through fire, over mountains and plains and even over
a train in motion. At last the Indians are surrounded
, at the very
moment when the chief sorcerer has his knife to the scalp of the
angelic victim. They are shot down with rifles and the child is saved
by her father and fiance.
" The parts were assigned, the scenes were staged. The Redskins
caught on like anything. There were several rehearsals of the final
scene. When all was ready, they' shot' this scene. Ralph, the photographer
, he was a fat chap with spectacles- was hard at it, and while
he turned and snapped the acrobatics and graces of the male star and
the female star- both on horsebck, of course- and the troops of horse
men thundering downhill like avnlaaches, he yelled and cursed and
applauded and sweated like a child streaming with tears.
*
( To be continued)
position in Afro- American soeietty, by playing second fiddle to the
powers that be.
As the struggle assumes sharper class lines the so- called Negro
leaders who still befuddle the black workers and peasants with radical
propaganda such as Garvey's" Back to Africa" slogan- a form of black
Zionism- will be compelled to show their true colors and in this way
expose their counter- revolutionary position before the Negro working
class 4
