VOICE OF THE PEOPLE
On the Lynching of Murderers at
New Orleans.
An American Citizen Expresses His
Views on the Subject in Clear and
Unmistakable Language- Let
Judges Have More Backbone. Our
An American citizen, writing to the
San Diego Sun, says:
What are the plain facts? The Mafia,
an organized band of thugs and murderers
in the city of New Orleans, had
for years terrorized that city and murdered
its citizens, defied the law and terrorized
juries, and at last these thugs
assassinated the Chief of Police in the
street- shot him to death because he was
attempting to do his duty as an officer
and arrest criminals. The murderers
were arrested and tried. The evidence
was conclusive. Not a man in the United
States but believes in his breast that the
men tried were guilty. But through fear
of their lives or for money the jury failed
to convict. The sovereign people there
executed the law. When the agent
proved dishonest and faithless the principal
acted. These are the plain facts.
Eleven of an organized band of red
handed murderers were killed. Eight of
the eleven were American citizens- at
least, had taken the oath to support the
Constitution and laws of the United
States and the State wherein they were
made citizens. The other three are re
ported to be citizens of Italy. And thus
have the
we Goy-
representatives of that
ernment demanding retribution and indemnity
from the United States for this
we of men
who have taken the oath of allegiance to
this Government, and many editors of
Italian papers, frantically calling on a
foreign Government to come and avenge
their countrymen- a curious proceeding
for. American citizens. Mr.
taking a hand in the matter, and it is
attempted to make an international mat
ter of it.
The Italians refer to the treaty between
the two Governments, wherein it is provided
that the citizens of Italy shall have
the same rights and privileges and be
subjected to the same penalties and restraints
as American citizens. Now has
this provision of the treaty been violated
or strained in the least? Not at all. Were
not the citizens of Italy, who were murderers
, served exactly the same as the
citizens of the United States who were
murderers? Eight American citizens-
murderers were killed, three citizens of
Italy- murderers- were killed.
had the people of New Orleans selected
the three Italian citizens from the
eleven and killed them and saved the
eight American citizens, or had made any
ian Government would have had a case.
As it is, it is none of Italy's business,
none of Mr. Blaine's business, but is
a matter that concerns the city of New
Orleans and the State of Louisiana alone.
Now these eleven men were killed, not
because they were citizens of this or any
other country, but because they were
murderers. We have made
no treaty
with any foreign nation as to how these
States will administer the laws, only that
we will treat all alike. That's what was
done in this case.
The Mafia murderers and bandits were
hunted in Italy like wild beasts. Does
Italy demand that the United States shall
give them license to rob and murder in
the United States? That is exactly what
this call for vengeance means, if it means
anything. The simple fact is that American
citizenship has been made too cheap.
The United States has become the dumping
ground for the paupers and thugs of
Europe as well as some of its honest poor.
Our courts are every day making citizens
(?) of persons who do not possess a
single qualification for citizenship. And
right here let me mention the instance of
one of our own Superior Judges- Aitken
who denied the application of a person
for citizenship because it was made plain
to him that the applicant could not and
would not make a good American citizen.
Everyone in the court- room felt that the
was exactly right. And if our
Judges would reject about nine out of ten
applicants they would be doing about
right. The sooner the people of these
United States meet this question- as they
must sooner or later- of organized bands
of criminals, like the Mafia of New
Molly Maguires of Pennsylvania and the
Highbinders of California, the better.
If Mr. Blaine wants to represent the
American people he can say to all foreign
States
poses in the future, as in the past, to keep
pro
inviolate all treaty stipulations. But the
people of the several States will continue
to make and administer
their State laws
as they see fit without foreign interfer
ence; that in cases of crime they will not
inquire as to citizenship. If they send
their citizens here and they commit mur
der they will be hung just as surely as
they would be were they American citizens
. like
you had better keep your citizens at
home, and if you think you can change
these conditions by sending over an iron
clad, you may try that."-
