GOSSIP. KANSAS
" Speaking of nerve," remarked the cigar
drummer, as he passed around a sample
box," you can't always tell by a man's previous
reputation what he will do when he
gets in an awful tight box. I happened
be at Medicine Lodge twelve or thirteen to
years ago, on the day that Brown, the
Caldwell marshal, his deputy, Ben Wheeler,
and a couple of cowboys named Wesley and
Smith undertook to rob the bank, and
killed the president and cashier. The Medicine
Ledgers pursued the robbers, ran
them into a canyon and captured the whole
lot. That night they went to the jail to
take them out to hang them. As the sher
iff at that time only had one pair of
shackles and one pair of handcuffs, he had
handcuffed two of them together and
shackled the other two, but the robbers
had slipped the irons some way, and when
the crowd came to take them out it was
not just the pleasant social gathering they
had anticipated. All the robbers jumped
out into the crowd, and the shooting was
uncomfortably general and promiscuous.
An old farmer deposited a load of buckshot
in the person of Brown, the leader of
gang, and subsequent proceedings interest the
ed him no more. Ben Wheeler was perforated
in one or two places, but not fatal
ly, and Smith and Wesley were caught
before they fairly got out of the jail. As
Brown was already dead, it was not considered
necessary to hang him, but Wheel
er, Smith and Wesley were taken to a convenient
elm tree to elevate.
" Wheeler, who had enjoyed a reputation
as a bad man who wasn't afraid of any
thing, while deputy marshal at Caldwell,
when it came to the po of facing death,
whined like a puppy, promised to reveal
all sorts of plots and become a model citizen
if the crowd would only spare his life.
The only man in the party who showed
nerve was the cowboy, Billie Smith, who,
on account of his supposed timidity and
lack of experience, had been detailed to
hold the horses while the rest of the gang
went into the bank to do the robbing.
When he was stood up under the limb and
asked if there was anything he wanted to
say or word he wanted sent to his friends,
he answered without a quiver that there
was nothing he could think of just then.
The noose was adjusted around his neck
by a cowboy who had known Smith on the
range, and, with a cheerful' Adios, young
feller,' Smith was pulled off the ground
and left swinging in the night air,
with his companions." along
