Lynch Law and Justice.
" The Rockville Sentinel attempts to jus-
tify the recent lynching in its county, and
rehearses the old arguments of the uncer-
tainties and delays of the law, which form
the never- failing pretexts of the regulators
and vigilantes whose operations keep communities
in disorder and alarm, and who
have themselves to be suppressed with stern
severity as the first requisite towards secar
ing peace and good order. Where a negro
isce criminal there is no prospect of any
miscarriage of justice in a rape case in this
State, and when the Sentinel assures us
that the men who vindictively murdered
Peck belonged to the most respectable por
tion of the community, it only increases the
shame which the proceeding has cast on
Montgomery County. Mob murder has attained
a terribie popularity in Maryland.
During the last few years we have had a
lynching in Anne Arundel county, in Prince
George's, in Frederick, and now in Montgomery
. The grand jury that has the cour-
age to indict some of the men engaged in
such affairs will do the community a vast
service."
Mr. Editor: -After reading the above article
from the Baltimore American, I cannot
but feel inclined to assure you that no matter
how much the other sex may have to say
against lynching murderers and ravishers
the good women everywhere we hear from
applaud and thank you for the consideration
you have for their feelings and honor.
Only for one moment reflect upon what an
outraged woman or girl has to undergo now
days in our courts of justice. What father,
brother, husband or friend can endure the
impudent questioning that is permitted by
lawyers who would be or would like to be
called gentlemen adding insult to injury?
I cannot express, the indignation of pur
women upon this subject against the offenders
in this particular.
Well justify our by
hearsing the old argument of uncertainties
and delays of the law." Have they not
given ample reason for mistrust. Just think
of the poor orphan girl in Baltimore City
that fell a victim to the deliberate and wicked
plans of the one- armed, base scoundrel Cur
tis; and if possible the worse case, that of
Miss Chancy, of Washington City, not mentioning
others of women and children.-
Though there is not much public talk
about yet, there is a deep feeling not to be
trifled with much longer, and good men are
heard to say that lawyers may not be useful
to the country when the people are forced
to take such matters in their own hands and
see justice done.
Another case of what is called injustice
must be mentioned, that of an excellent
young colored man, by one of his own race,
for a mere supposed affront to a bold young
negress, and in the presence of many wit
central
nesses in Freda
part of the city of
,
erick, and he the murderer was sent to the
penitentiary six- think of it- for six years,
when at the same time a poor young white
man was sentenced for four years for the
theft of$ 50. Now, if this is called justice
can this people do otherwise than pray from
such jurymen to be delivered.
Did our jurymen but more carefully read
in their Bible's what the Great Laugaver
says on the subject they would
, certainly
understand their duty and perform it more
faithfully. There we are commanded that
the murderer and the ravisher shall be put to
death. MARIETTA
Western Maryland, January 27, 1880..
