GREEN'S UNEASY GHOST
THE FLITTING SPOOK THAT BROKE
UP AN INDIANA SCHOOL.
A Pretty Good Housler Ghost Story- The
Various Ways in which the Spirit
Manifested Itrelf- How Creen Caiae
to Be Lynched.
A special correspondent of the Chi
cago Inter- Ocean writes from Flora,
Ind .. as follows: There is one com
raunity in this State where there is
co disseat on the question as to
whether there are such things as
ghosts. Walnut Grove, a village twi
miles west of here, is the place, and
so firm is the faith of the residents
there in spooks that they have forced
the school trustees of the township to
abandon the secolhouse that for
years has answered for their needs.
and construct another that will be
free from the taint of being haunted.
For some years the story that ghosts
were comtion visitors in the vicinity
of the Walnut Grove schoolhouse have
been curreat, but the trustees, who
are hard- headed types of Hoosiers,
have always refused to give any ere
dence to the reports. They have lived
in hope that the stories would be for
gotten, and have done all that was in
their power to cast ridicule upon the
rumors. Their course was dictated by
two motives. In the first place, they
did not believe in ghosts, and in the
second, they had an investment in the
schoolhouse and rescuted the circulation
of stories that were liable to ira
pair its value and usefulness.
From the standpoint of the trustees,
this action on their part was all right.
but it did not meet with the approva:
of the parents of the children who bad
to attend the school. When little
Johnny Jones and his sister Ste, for
instance, came screaming home to
their mother and told her of seeing a
man swinging by the neck to a tree in
the immediate vicinity of the school
house, and that the hanging man
amused himself by making ugly faces
at them, it became a matter of mo
ment to the parents, especially as lit
tle Johnny and his sister Sue almost
went into spasms when told to go to
school as usual the next day. The
story of Johnny and a's sister had corroboration
from other children who at
tended the school, and finally the par
ents began to withdraw their children
from the place and send them to this
city or to some other place to get an
education.
Sometimes the ghost varied his
pearance, and instead of hanging from
the tree, would be seen strolling along
the road, his head very much on one
side, his tongue hanging out of his
mouth, and an expression of indescrib-
able agony on his face. The children
said that they would no more than get
a glimpse of him when he would disap-
pear in the most unaccountable man
ner. The ghost would be walking on
the road where there was not an object
to afford him concealment, when,
presto! he would be gone.
The children and the parents said
that it was Amer Green's ghost. The
school trustees said" fiddlesticks," but
the parents stuck to their belief and
accentuated it by withdrawing their
children from the school. At the last
term of the school, the one that has
just closed, there were only two scholars
, and at its termination the teacher
told the trustees that she could not en
dure the life at the school for another
term, and must leave. The trustees
tried to get a teacher to take the
school for the fall term, but its fame
as a ghost- haunted place had become
noised abroad, and the quest of the
trustees was unsuccessful. In view
of this fact ,, and in deference to the
wishes of the taxpayers the trustees
have awarded the contracts for the
erection of another schoolhouse in lieu
of the old one. It will have another
site, and the hope is that the ghost of
Amer Green will not in future bother
the children and interrupt their edu
cation.
The slim attendance at the school the
last term, as well as the change of
heart on the part of the trustees, was
largely due to the apparition that appeared
to Dr. Budford Karns of this
city one night last fail. Dr. Karns is
not an emotional man, and his reputation
for truth and veracity are un
questioned. The doctor had been
making a professional call in the Walnut
Grove neighborhood on the night
of November 30, and had to pass the
vicinity of the schoolhouse on his way
home. While
passing a grove of
trees near the schoolhouse he saw the
body of a man hanging from a limb
and swaying back and forth. When
the doctor told of what he had seen
the next day it settled the matter, and
the fate of the old schoolhouse was
assured.
While there has not been anything
new discovered to account for the appearance
of the ghost or the unearthly
noises that have terrified the children
at school, there is only one belief on
the subject, and that is that the un
canny object is the ghost of Amer
Green. On a walnut
tree in the vicinity
of the schoolhouse some years
ago Amer Green was strung up by
lynch law and his body left hanging
there In view
. of the appearance of
the ghost so frequently and its apparent
inability to rest, the community is
now beginning to take some stock in
Amer's dying declaration that he was
innocent of the crime for which he was
lynched, and that he will never rest
in his grave until his innocence is
made plain.
Amer Green was known in the neighborhood
as a" terror" and was a gen-
napkinerally notorious character.
He was
an admirer of Luella Mabbit, the
daughter of William Mabbit, a well-
to- do farmer living near Young America
, thirteen miles northeast of here.
Mabbit did not approve of the intimacy
of his daughter with Green, and at his
command the girl wrote her admirer
a letter requesting that he abandon
his suit for her hand.
Such a request did not suit the impetuous
nature of Green, who became
greatly enraged at the girl's letter and
made numerous threats of what he
would do. August 19, 1886, Green, in
company with William Walker, called
at the Mabbit house in the evening.
and asked to see Luella. Her sister
Cynthia, now Mrs. Walker, went to
the door and told Green that Luella
had gone to bed and did not wish to
get up reen raved at hearing this,
and finally. Luella got up and dressed
and she and Green went out together.
Cynthia went to bed and there was to
one else in the house who knew that
Luella and Green had gone out to
gether.
That was the last seen of Luella
Mabbit alive. When she did not re
turn home a search was made for her,
but no trace could be found. Green
was arrested on the charge of murder
and placed in jail at Delphia. Almost
six months afterward, on February 5,
1887, the body of a woman
W33
fished out of the riv. some tailes be
low Lafayette, and some of the relatives
of the girl recognized the corpse
as that of Luella. There were doubts
then, and always have been since, a:
to the value of the identification. When
the Coroner's jury held an inquest on
the body picked cut of the river the
verdict was that it was the body of
Luella Babbit, and that she came to
her.nd at the hands of Green. He was
held for the crime, but the State officials
found so much dificulty in
tracing his movements the night he
had gone out with Luella that the trial
was put off time and again in order
that they might make out a case
against him.
This delay was not understood or ap.
preciated by the community, which
was terribly aroused over the disappearance
of the girl, and was fearful
that her abductor and murderer, as
they judged Green to be, might es
cape punishment on some technicality.
It was resolved that Green, must die.
About 10 o'clock on the night of
October 21, 1887. a mob surrounded
the jail at Delphia and called on the
sheriff for the keys. When he refused
to give them up the mob attacked the
jail with cold chisels and sledge ham
mers, and socn forced an entrance.
Green was taken out, placed in a wag
on with a guard, and then the mob
climbed in to their vehicles, which
were standing around, and the proces
sion came up its route to, Walnut
Grove.
When they got there Green was con
fronted with Mr. Mabbit, and to the
latter's question as to what he had
done with Luella swore that the girl
was alive and well and was then liv
ing at Fort Wayne, Tex. Mr. Mabbit
and the mob were of the opinion that
this was a lie and was told for the
purpose of gaining time. so without
any more parley the rope that had
been brought along was placed around
Green's neck and the other end thrown
around the limb of a tree, and in a few
moments Green was a corpse. He pro
tested his innocence to the last mo
apment, and at no time exhibited the
least trace of fear except at the ex
pression of a wish on the part of some
of the mob to burn him, and then he
begged them to" Kill him like a man,"
and not to torture him.
In explanation of his movements
with Luella Mabbit cn the night they
went away together Green said that
he and the girl had planned to elope
and had gone from the Mabbit house
to Frankfort, where they separated,
Luella going to Indianapolis. while
Green went to Kokomo for money and
they met in Indianapolis the day fol
lowing. From there Luella had gone
to Texas, while he had returned home
to settle up some affairs preparatory
to joining her.
In the meantime the people of Wal
nut Grove are satisfied that Green's
spirit is walking the earth, and that it
will never rest until the mystery of
Luella Mabbit's fate is effectually
cleared up. But he has driven them
out of their schoolhouse and forced
the board to build them a new one,
and this is undoubtedly the first time
in the history of Indiana or any other
State where a has had that
measure of official ghost recognition.
