GAME BALL RIOT AT FATAL
LYNCHING NARROWLY AVERTED
IN PITTSBURG.
Six Negro Crap Shooters Draw Revolvers
When Ordered from the Grounds- One
Beaten to Death After a Desperate
Fight and Another Was Abont to be
Hanged When the Mob Came to Its
Senses.
Pittsburg, Pa., May 31.- In a riot at
a baseball ground at High Bridge, in
West Liberty borough, to- day, one ne
gro was killed, two were probably fa
atlly shot, a third was badly beaten
and thrown over a hill and three white
boys were severely but not fatally
wounded. One of the negroes escaped
lynching by a very narrow margin,
The dead: Charles Kelly, negro
,
aged thirty, literally pounded to death.
The injured: William Davis, negro,
shot in the back and neck, probably fa
tally; Sandy Garrett negro shot in left
,,
breast; George Foster, negro, badly
beaten with clubs and stones; Leo
Merin, white boy, aged seventeen, shot
in the hand; John Pierce, white, aged
thirteen, shot in the groin; Joseph Tu-
metha, white, aged seventeen, shot in
the face.
The ball ground at High Bridge is a
popular resort on Sundays and to- day
fully two thousand persons, men, wo
men and boys, had congregated there
to witness a game between two of the
local amateur teams. Before the game
had started," Sandy" Garrett, a large
negro, whom the car
ried as a mascot, discovered the pres
ence of six negro crap shooters and
gamblers who had come upon the
ground with their paraphernalia prepared
to do business. Sandy objected
to this, and backed by a number of the
Beltzhoover men and rooters for the
club, ordered the gamblers from the
grounds. The latter refused to go and
produced a brace of revolvers.
The players then began to retreat and
the negroes began shooting. Finding
that Sandy had been partially stunned
by a blow over the head, his friends
rallied and with reinforcements made
a rush for the gamblers. By this time
probably 1.000 men and boys were in
the pursuit. George Foster, one of the
fugitives, was caught and terribly beat-
en and thrown over a hill. The two remaining
fugitives continued their flight,
using their revolvers freely. They
took refuge in a chicken coop standing
near the roadside and when Sandy
made a dash for the coop. intending to
the men out, he received a bullet
in the breast under the heart and fell
to the ground with a groan. Following
this up, the men inside the coop would
open the door, fire into the crow and
then jump back to safety. One of the
mob climbed to the roof and the next
time the negro inside opened the door
to fire, a huge rock fell and landed on
his head. There was a shout of delight
The negro, who
from the hundreds.
was identified later as Charles Kelley,
fell forward, and at the same instant
both arms went out and from his hands
flew two revolvers. There was a rush.
The man was literally pounded to death.
Still thirsting for vengeance, the men
rushed the coop and in a few moments,
amid muffled shouts and curses, they
emerged, dragging the second negro
with them. Then a shout came" Get a
rope; get a rope." In a few moments
secured and with
a stout rope was
shouts of glee, it was tightened about
the half nead negro and a dozen men at
the other end of it started down the
hill, for a distance of at lease 300 yards.
The negro was bleeding from a dozen
cuts and bruises and bullet wounds, and
was apparently more than half dead.
Over the rough ground, the victim of
the mob's fury was dragged to a large
tree. Soon men were climbing the tree
to fasten the rope to al imb, and it
was only a question of minutes when
there would have been a lynching. At
this critical moment, some one yelled
" Let him alone, let the law deal with
him. Can't you see he's about all in."
The crowd came to its senses apparently
and some one else yelled," Here
comes the officers," and this settled
the lynching. The negro to all appearances
dead, was left lying on the
ground with the rope still around his
neck and the crowd walked away.
It was fully three hours later before
a physician was summoned to examine
the victim, who proved to be William
Davis He was later taken to a hospital
in. a very serious condition.
