a state of excitement over the reported
intention of Nicaragua to attack Hon
duras. The Guatemalans also are in a
state of unrest which is reflected in
usually peaceful Costa Rica and the off
cials here would not be surprised to s
something like a general Central American
war result from the present conditions
.
It is positively stated that these move
ments on the part of our navy are in no
way connected with a canal project and
that there will be no attempt to negotiate
further with Colombia on that subject
unless that government advances a reasonable
proposition.
A BUNCOMBE MAN ROBBED.
Lured to New York and Victimized --- Two Men
Arrested on His Complaint.
New York, Nov. 3.- William Robertson,
of Buncombe County, North Carolina, has
complained to the authorities here that
he was lured to New York by two men
with a tempting offer of investment and
robbed of$ 175 at the point of a pistol
a hotel. Frederick D. Wilson, of this
city, and S. Williams, of Paterson, N. J.,
are held in$ 2,000 bail each in Jefferson
Market Court here, as the result of Rob
ertson's action.
As to Combee's Resignation.
( By the Associated Press.)
London, Nov. 3.- A special dispatch
from Paris says that a meeting of the
council of ministers today Premier Combes
announced that he will resign immediately
after the budget is voted.
Paris, Nov. 2.- The reports that Premier
Combes intended to resign became more
persistent tus afternoon, following the
action of M. Jaures, the Socialist leader,
in notifying the President of the Council
of his intention to interpellate the government
on the subject of the strikes in
the northern spinning district, but the
reports are not traceable to any authoritative
source. M. Combes' answer to the
interpellation will show that the govern
ment has done everything possible to se
cure arbitration, and in view of his explanation
the Premier's immediate associates
say M. Jaures and the Socialists
will continue to vote in support of the
government, thus ensuring the Premier
a majority and obviating any expected
reason for his resignation.
While the retirement of M. Combes
to be probable later, the
continues
Premier has not yet announced his intention
to do so, and there is no present in-
dication that his retirement is imminent.
Lynched at Pittsburg
Negro Nearly
( By the Associated Press.)
Pittsburg, Pa., Nov. 3.- Hugh Armstead,
a negro, narrowly escaped lynching ts
evening for the probable fatal shooting
of Patrick Butler, a watcher at the polls
in the jail voting precinct. The shooting
had no connection with politics. Butler's
account of the affair is that he, with
several companions, were playfully contesting
for the possession of a cane which
belonged to Buter and in the scuffle Arned
stead was struck by the cane as he was
passing. Without other provocation Arm-
stead drew a revover and fired.
After the shooting Armstead ran along
Ross street, Fifth Avenue and Smithfield
street to the Monongahela River followed
by an excited crowd of five hundred or
more men, who kept up a continual cry
of" lynch kim." When the negro was
finally captured the police had a desper-
ate fight with the crowd to protect their
prisoner.
A Woman Starved to Death.
( By the Associated Press.)
Richmond, Va., Nov. 3.- Literally starved
to death in the midst of plenty is the
fate that befell Mrs. Cript Kendrick, in
Pittsylvania county.
The family of four- mother, father, son
and daughter- lived in a very dilapidated
house.
When their food supply became utterly
exhausted, the father, who is a cripple,
hobbled out, and gathered wild grapes.
The woman ate heartily of these, but died
within a few hours afterward. Neighbors
visited the house and found it destitute of
any furniture whatsoever.
The dead woman was stretched out on
the bare floor with a stick of wood for a
sack for covering The
pillow and a guano.
toy, who was nearly naked, ran from visitors
like a scared animal. Nearest neigh-
bors were unaware of the destitute condition
of the family.
Killed by Fall From Turret.
( By the Associated Press.)
Newport, R. I., Nov. 3.- Lieutenant Albert
M. Beecher, ordnance officer of the
battleship Maine, fell from the forward
turret to the handling room, a distance
of 40 feet today and was fatally injured.
He died an hour later without regaining
consciousness.
At the time of the accident the battle
ship was off Gay Head, en route for Me-
nemsha Bight, to engage in target prac-
tice. Lieutenant Beecher was examining
articles of ardnance when he lost his balance
and pitched headforemost through
His
the turret to the handling room.
skull was fractured and he was unconscious
when picked up.
Suit Against A.& N. C.
Kinston, N. C., Nov. 3.-Mr. Jacob
Parrott, who lives about three miles from
Kinston, entered suit this morning against
the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad
Company for$ 1,000 damages for putting
his younger brother, Simon, off the train
between LaGrange and Goldsboro one
Saturday night some time ago, when Simon
claimed he had bought a ticket to Golds-
boro. Simon is a minor and Mr. Jake
Parrott brought suit as the next friend.
The papers were made returnable before
the Superior Court judge at the November
term.
Nothing of Great Value Lest.
( By the Associated Press.)
Rome. Nov. 3.- Osservatore Romano
publishes today an official communication
concerning the fire which broke out in the
Vatican Saturday evening last, saying:
" We are authorized in the most explicit
and the most absolute manner to announce
that no object of artistic or historic value
was or injured in the recent Vatican
fire." lost
