RIOT ON CHURCH HILL
Intense Excitement Reigned All
Through the Night, and Threats to
Lynch the Offending Negro Were
Everywhere Heard- Crowd at the
Jail, Which Was Heavy
Guard Early This Morning Under.
The shooting and dangerous wounding
of Motorman T. H. Baber, an employee
of the Virginia Passenger and Power
Company, by Edward F. Watkins, a ne
gro, near the car sheds at Twenty- ninth
and P streets at 4:30 yesterday afternoon,
created great excitement and indignation
among the car employees of the Passenger
and Power Company, and gave rise
to frequently heard threats of lynching
this morning. The shooting precipitated
a serious race riot, which was quelled
by the arrival of the police, who restored
order and arrested the leading negro riot
ers.
The timely arrival of the police prevent
ed a lynching of the negro Watkins soon
after the shooting, at the time when a
resort to the rope was most imminent.
After a hurried search a rope was se
cured and from twenty to fifty men were
on the point of lynching the negro. Some
say the rope had been placed around his
neck, but this is probably an exaggeration
. Assistant Superintendent Vaughan,
of the car company, at the point of a
pistol, went to the rescue and caused the
mob to desist. A moment later the police
arrived and the danger was averted.
As the night advanced, however, the
police received information from many
sources that an attack on the jail was
contemplated by the street railway employees
as soon as all were off duty, or
about 2:30 A. M. While the rumor was
not considered alarming, Major Howard
and his subordinates took every precaution
to over- awe any demonstration and
prevent a possible clash. Without excite
ment and quietly, officers were sent to the
vicinity of the jail, where Chief- of- Police
Howard himself was.
In all twenty- five or thirty patrolmen
were on duty at the jail at 3 A. M. At
that hour there was not the slightest dan
ger of an attempt to attack the jail.
Twenty or twenty- five men were sitting
or standing on the corner of Nineteenth
and Main, and a squad of policemen and
reporters were grouped in front of and
a few within the jail.
There were rumors that a crowd of 200
car men were gathered at Twenty- first
and Marshall, but they were dispersed by
the counsel of Mr .. George Simmons. Ma
jor Howard spoke to those loitering near
the jail and advised them to go to their
hemes. Really, there was nothing like
a demonstration of force in the vicinity
the jail. of
