Lynch law in the Mountains.
A case of Lynch law, not, however, of
a very severe character, has lately occur
red in Woodstock, New Hampshire. A
letter from that place states the facts as
follows: A man by the name of Tucker,
alias' Colonel,' who has a wife and sever
al fine children, took it into his head to
make love to a young girl, about two
years since, and has from time to time,
taken her on journeys with him, and on
their return would leave her at the house
of her father. Finally, he informed his
wife that he should live with her no long
and took the girl to live with him
er .-
,
Fiske& Norcross, of Lowell, have a large
number of men near this place, during
winter season, cutting and hauling
logs the. These men, hearing of the matter,
Island of Cuba. Col.
met from the different camps, and, after near Mantanzes,
consultation, agreed to proceed to Col. King, he represents, to be deplorably ema
Tuckers house and make a demonstration. ciated, and entertains no hope of recover
As it was well known that Tucker usual- ing his health. He visits the sugar house
ly went armed with a revolver and dirk on the estate daily, where the boiling op
there was some hesitation as to who should, eration is going on. His friends think
bell the cat,' or, in other words, who
should take the lead and enter the house
in search of Tucker. Finally, one of the
gang, named Jenkins, stepped up and
said that, as he was getting old, and was
without wife or child to cry for him if he
was killed, he would volunteer to lead in
the matter. On Saturday, March 19, the
loggers, to the number of about one hundred
, according to the agreement, surrounded
the house, and Captain Jenkins
entered, while the others stood outside .--
Col. Tucker was made prisoner and placed
in the center. The girl tried to escape,
but was prevented, and taken back to her
father's house. They then took Colonel
Tucker and marched him to the home of
the father of the girl, to whom they introduced
him. After this they took him
to the house of Col. Brown, who told
them not to kill him, but to punish him
as he deserved it. They then marched
him to the villiage of Woodstock where
they formed a line and ordered, him to
march and countermarch in front of them
. Congress and Locofoco State Legisla
a
Finally, after keeping up this exercise
,
un ture. Free Soilism alone would ac
til about midnight, they gave him some complished this for the Locofocos have, but the
good advice, obtained a promise from
him that he would take his wife and chil
dren home and treat them well, with the
alternative if he did not that they would
visit him again in two weeks, and
allowed him to depart.- Boston Traveler then.
