[ From the Philadelphia Age.1
Mobbing Newspapers.
It is becoming the fashion again to mob
Democratic newspapers. The plan of opera
tions is for the members of the League to
supply a squad of soldiers with liquor, and
then when they have become intoxicated to
instigate them to mob the obnoxious office.
In this way, within a few weeks, the Craw-
ford Democrat, and the Northumberland
Democrat, of this State, and the Mahoning
Sentinel, and Ohio Eagle, of Ohio, have been
summarily suppressed. Thus far the only
redress for these outrages has been that
secured in the town of Lancaster, the place
of publication of the Ohio Eagle, where the
Democrats retaliated by destroying the
dwellings of the Abolitionists, who had
been foremost in instigating the mob. This
seems to be the only remedy for such offences.
Things have come to such a pass that as
against the acts of the" loyal," the laws afford
no sufficient protection. In every one
of the Northern States, however, the Democrats
are fully a match for their assailants.
In l'ennsylvania, for example, if it came to
blows we could drive the members of the
League into the Deleware within twentyfour
hours after the first blood was shed. If
they are such fools, then, as to attempt to
inaugurate a system of Lynch law here they
must be prepared to pay the penalty. For the
last three years the Democrats have made
almost every conceivable sacrifice to main
tain order. They will continue to do so, so
long as they can but we assure the men of
property and influence among the members
of the League, that there are limits to their
endurance, and that the Democrats of the
North will not submit to the destruction of
their property without resorting to measures
of retaliation. It is absurd to suppose that
one political party can enjoy a monopoly of
mobs and assassination. Democrats have
shown themselves to be excellent citizens-
marvels of obedience to hateful laws
models of patience under the most offensive
subject to human infirmities, and very prone,
when smitten on the one eek, to hit back,
instead of turning the other., let us
have no more mobs. Pray
