THE FAILURE OF JUSTICE.
Some days ago we had occasion to
make some remarks on the favors ex
tended to criminals under our system,
in connection with the supreme court's
decision of the Parker and McAfee case.
That case presented one of the forms of
escape from justice that has made the
American people distrustful of the law
The
ful procedure against wrong- doers.
than
uncertainty of punishment, more
any other one thing, has encouraged the
commission of crime in this country and
more than any other one thing is now
developing the spirit of lynch law
throughout the United States. It has
already developed to such an extent that
we have annually more lynchings than
legal executions. We are confronted
now by an example of escape from justice
in another form- by the exercise of
the pardoning power in the case of Dr.
J. Frank Benham of Richmond, who has
been serving a sentence of two years for
criminal seduction in the southern penitentiary
.
It is not often that an offender of
this kind is brought to punishment. The
victim is usually not desirous of publicity
and can ordinarily be persuaded to
accept enough money to enable her
to
slip away and try to hide her shame as
best she may. And this is known and
counted on by a certain class of men,
who hunt their victims as wolves hunt
their prey. They count the chances of
detection and punishment. They rely
on wealth and social position to protect
them. Of that class was Frank Ben
ham. He followed this girl with a per
could not be balked. He
tinacity that
obstacles thrown in his
overcame all
pretended to love her. He
way. He
There is
engaged to marry her.
not
the slightest room for doubt on the sub
, because actual preparations for mar
made. Under promise of
riage were
marriage he finally accomplished his pur
pose, and when it was known that the
girl was to become a mother he abandoned
her with the cold cruelty of an
accomplished libertin.e. Her appeals to
him to carry out his promise and save
her honor, as far as he might yet do,
fell on deaf ears. Prayers, entreaties,
threats, were of no avail, and so the mat
ter was put before the criminal authorities
and proceedings were begun against
him.
She was an uneducated Irish girl of
very respectable, but not wealthy family.
His family had position and respect. His
father was an influential democratic politician
. He was educated. He seemed
to think that his position was sufficient
answer to the charge. Although the
trial lasted through five days the defense
amounted to little more than a sneer at
the prosecuting witness. The jury
brought in a verdict of guilty, and the
prisoner was given the very moderate
sentence of two years, when the maxi
mum of five would have been more consistent
with the facts of the case. Then
the pressure for a pardon began and
was continued until it was granted. It
appears that Benham has paid the girl
$ 700 since the sentence was passed, and
the local reports furnish the extraordinary
information that," the governor, in
granting the pardon, stated that he did
so after having been guaranteed that
Benham would give to Miss Fuller$ 300
in addition to that already given her."
We hope this is an error. We hope that
the time has not come when a convicted
criminal can secure release in Indiana on
any such basis, even if the prosecuting
witness desired it. Our law provides a
mode by which the father may be compelled
to support his child under such
circumstances, and this payment can
hardly be considered more than that.
The evil effect of such a pardon is
not confined to the encouragement of
similar offenses. It is an encouragement
to relatives of the injured party to take
the law into their own hands. Hardly
an encouragement either, but a warning
that justice may not be done unless it is
done by violence. And this is even now
so commonly recognized that it is an understood
thing that American juries will
not convict a man who kills the seducer
of a relative. We had in this city a
case but a few days ago where a prosecution
of this kind was abandoned by the
state after a portion of the evidence
had been heard. The existence of the
present state of public sentiment is a
solemn warning of the unsatisfactory
character of our criminal system, and it
seems plain that the tendency of public
sentiment is strongly toward greater dis
satisfaction and more extended lawless
ness. The strongest safeguard against
that result is the prompt and
enforcement of the laws in all respects vigorous.
