POVERTY A BLESSING.- Poverty is the nurse
of manly energy and heaven- climbing thoughts,
attended by love, and faith, and hope, around
whese steps the mountain breezes blow, and
from whose countenance all the virtues gather
strength Look around the distin-
. yon upon
guished men that in every department of life
guide and control the times, and inquire what
was their origin and what was their early for
tune. Were they, as a general role, rocked and
dandled in the lap of wealth? No; such men
emerged from the homes of decent competence
or struggling poverty. Necessity sharpens their
faculties; and privation and sacrifice brace their
moral nature. They learn the great art of renunciation
, and enjoy the happiness of having
few wants: they know nothing of indifference or
satiety. There is not an idle fibre in their
frames; they put the vigor of a resolute purpose
into every act. The edge of their mind is
always kept sharp; in the school of life, men
like these meet softly- nurtured darlings of prosPerity
as iron meets the vessel of porcelain.
How CRAMPTON LOOKS.- Among the many
foreign celebrities here, none cuts a greater
dash than Crampton, the British minister. Of
course he is seldom seen except in the street,
when he gives his ensigns of royalty an airing.
His equipage is distinguished from all others by
its extreme brilliancy. Every fair day he takes
his open barouche, a pair of spanking grays,
seat, him
self, and drives furiously around the broad ave
nues; his footman a dapper little gentleman,
with a blue cape coat and cockney hat, sitting
in the cushioned seat behind. Crampton is six
feet high, straight as a gun, gray hair, and rotund
like every other beef- eating Englishman.
Wash. correspondent Cleveland Plaindealer.
SENDING GUNPOWDER TO RUSSIA.- We con
demn the Yankees for doing contraband business
with Turkey, but forget that Russia, at this mo
ment, is obtaining materials of war from Englishmen
. The trade is most extensive in the
north, and we regret to say that the number en
gaged in it is incredibly large. The terrible fire
at Newcastle- on- Tyne is not yet forgotten; but
what caused that fire? Nobody will tell in Newcastle
, but hundreds in Newcastle know that
that fire criginated in an explosion of yellow
alkali. Now, yellow alkali, was a disguised
name for saltpetre and nitre, which was shipped
to the north of Europe in large quantities, and
thence forwarded to Russia. On its arrival
nothing was required to make it into gunpowder
but a proper addition of charcoal.-
pool Daily Post. Liver
The Editor of the S. F. Chronicle attended
Mrs. Farnham's lecture and was evidently annoyed
. Hear what he says:
Most of those persons who leave the lecture
during the exercises, are those who have
ing boots, and seem anxious to let the people
know they are around; or else that class of young
fops, whose legs. being just the size of dipped
candles without their straightness, and encased
in pants hardly able to hold even them,
leave because it is painful to sit with their they legs
