From the Practical Christian.
The South -- Its Spirit -- Lynch Law.
There is one fact which places the
South before the world in a most shock
ing position, and that is it thirsts for the
blood of abolitionists! It is certainly not
safe for Wm. Lloyd Garrison, or any of
his prominent coadjutors, to cross Mason
and Dixon's line- they even, living south
of it, being the judges. For what fiendish
threats have they publicly sent forth
to the world against these men! Rewards
even have been offered for their
heads. And, admitting for argument's
sake, as we do not, of course, in fact, that
their zealous opposition to slavery is wrong
,
their enemies must, to say the least, be to
tally ignorant of the distinguishing princi-
ple of Christianity, thus to attempt to over
come evil with evil. For who will a
tempt to deny that Jesus teaches an opposite
principle? And if the ministers of
the South are not faithful in rebuking the
prevalent around them to
disposition so,
retaliate the North what are they
upon,
but the servants of oppressors, rather, than
of God? Or, if they encourage it, as they
: evidently do, who can say that they are
often censured in too strong language, by
even the most fanatical' auti- slavery
press in the land? What! those who
pretend to be the ambassadors of the Prince
who
of Peace one in design with those
,
- seek the lives of the friends of the down-
trodden and bruised! Oh! how strange is
it, that, with the light of the gospel shin-
hanging upon them, such characters suppose
they are what they profess to be! Why,
it is impossible that they should be the
successors of the apostles- heralds of the
cross.
But it would be dangerous for them to
call upon their brethren not to proceed
; against abolitionists as they are proceed
to call upon them to leave judgment
ing-
of
with God. They would be considered as
false to the peculiar institution as the
-
secret agents of abolitionists, and so be
likely to be destroyed themselves. This
by will reason be said of by their some faithfulness. And suppose, this should that
be their position? Is not the post of duty
often a post of danger? and does not one
prove himself unworthy to fill the minis-
for terial office, if he has not the moral courage
' cry aloud' against corruption, and
, 6 spare to not? If such are in the pulpit, as
pits, they ought immediately to retire into
private life, and grow up into spiritual
manhood, before they attempt to teach
again. Ministers! not dare to speak out
against their congregation for thirsting
for the blood of abolitionists! -not dare to
speak against lynch law! Aye, conniving
at such wickedness! This, I know,
is not needed to prove them no Caristians,
for the fact that they sustain the relation
to slavery that they do, does this. But if
they really approve of tarring and feath-
cring, hanging and burning, or in any
otherwise destroying such as plead the
cause of those that are in bonds, then are
they- what?- murderers! And
sustain this character, though they do they this
tion of their hearts beats against slavery,
nor because they, in the way that conscience
dictates, oppose it, but refrain from
rebuking those whose spirit this is, through
fear of being themselves devoured, ther
let them say that they have not virtue enough
to be faithful servants of the Must
High, and act accordingly. And, if this
be their situation, it is another striking
proof of the great wickedness of the
South.
Ready, are they? not only to put us of
the North to death when we take up our
abode in their midst, but to do the same to
their own citizens, if they dare firmly and
perseveringly to censure them for so do
ing! Oh! with what an evil spirit are
they saturated!
Reader, what kind of a people, in your
sober judgment, is that which pounces upon
the friends of universal liberty, as an
eagle upon his prey? or even upon the
friends of vice? Are they not in this respect
abominable, and without the fear of
the Just One before their eyes? Are
they not of Satan, rather than of Christ?
-- and this, though they call themselves
orthodox' or liberal' Christians? So
decides the light that is in me- and I believe
it is not darkness. What! not pru.
dent even for a Channing or a May, kind
spirits as they are, to visit a certain portion
of their country? -not prudent for
them to visit those who are tenacious of
the title of Christian, and who think
themselves wronged by being denominated
unbelievers! Oh, all they who have
such a revengeful and foul spirit, are of
their father the wicked one. Are
not? And, by the way, so are they who
here at the North mob the colored people,
and their friends- dragging them from
the rail- road cars, and otherwise insulting,
abusing, and mangling them. Nor are
they to be excepted from this censure, who
look down from the high places of author-
ily, and sanction such abominations. And
that affair at Lynn depot, of which nearly
all have heard something- a mob sanctioned
, if not headed by one Stephen A.
Chase, a Quaker, and which shamefully
assaulted friend Collins, of the Anti- Slave
ry Society, and Frederick Douglas, an eloquent
fugitive slave, that must receive a
particular notice in our paper, if circumstances
admit, before it gets too late. Such
disgraceful scenes are becoming so frequent
, that every press, and every pulpit,
ay, and every man, and every woman,
should speak of them as being of Satan.
He unchristianizes himself who participates
in them in any way. Christianity
requires us not to resist even evil with
evil- not to lay violent hands on any man,
but to put down wrong with right, and
use no other than spiritual weapons in
either our warfare with wickedness in
high places, or in low places. And the
more we witness the outbreaks of violence
which are so frequent in every direction,
the more sensible are we that it is of the
first importance to take the stand, that
Christianity requires us to leave the punishment
of even our worst enemies to
God 6 Christian resistance consis-
non-
.,
tently practised, does,' indeed, carry with
it the very highest conservative influence,
which can be brought to bear on human
society. It is our only security. And,
by faithfulness, the friends of Jesus can
make it as sensibly felt throughout the
world, that bruising and killing one another
is a sin against God as it is now
,
felt that drunkenness is -- and this done
,
uch is accomplished toward restraining
violence. To be engaged in mobs of any
kind, enher actively or passively, places a
man among the enemies of Christ and of
God- this is the stand that we must take.
And if we, being abolitionists, should be
in just as much danger of losing our lives
in going to the South in falling
amonged
ar
as
robbers- then what
,
our southern
brethren? If desire to put us to
death for our opinions if they actually
fulfil their desires, it is necessary to say
they are murderers? O, every drop of
blood that the South spills, or threatens to
spill, in their rage against those who are
laboring to to the
they must answer for, as for the blood of
Christ's martyr's and for every stripe
they inflict- but may God compassionate
their case, and save them from self destruction
And may abolitionists have
bis merciful. spirit. W. H. F.
