THE FRUIT OF MOB LAW
ing In Belleville, Mo.
Boys and Girls Play at Lynch
IMAGINARY POLIOEMEN PRESENT.
Rew Game Has Taken Its Place With
Kites and Tops- Imaginary Mayor
Gives Order Not to Harm Imaginary
Mob. and an Imaginary Hang
ing Follows- Fire Contributes
intie Touch. Real
A new game has been added to the
catalogue of sports of the children of
Belleville, Mo., says the St. Louis Post
Dispatch. It is the" game of lynch
ing." For the time being it has crowd
ed out baseball and jackstones, being
vastly more exciting, and, if continued
until fall, promises to deprive of
of its prestige the game of football some.
The children of the town, deducing
from the light and airy manner in
which many of their elders refer to the
lynching of the negro Wyatt on the
public square that the game is a proper
and creditable one and deriving from
the studied inactivity of the authorities
the assurance that it is perfectly
safe, have entered into the game with
zest, and of them have become
adept at it many.
If the game takes its place on the
year's calendar of sports and" lynch
ing time" recurs with the same regularity
as" kite time" and" top time"
the children will by the time they
grown be quite facile as lynchers. are
The game starts with the intended
victim, generally a boy, crouching in
the weeds in a make believe cell in an
imaginary jail. The lynchers, boys
and girls, gather under the nearest
electric light vow with great ferocity
that" the and nigger must die."
With shouts as hoarse as they can
make them the youngsters make a rush
for the make believe jail and dance
about it with an imitation of fury even
more realistic than that of the crowd
which surrounded the Belleville jail
few weeks ago. a
Make believe policemen hang about.
but make no attempt to disperse
mob. the
A make believe mayor makes a
speech studded with terrible adjectives
, immediately following which a
rush is made and the make believe
front door of the imaginary jail is
broken in. The mob is driven back by
an imaginary force of defenders. The
desperate mob withdraws a pace
confers. and
The consensus of opinion is that the
bastile can't be taken because the de
fenders have weapons filled with injurious
bullets, and they are all agreed
that, while they are bent on killing the
prisoner, they don't want to run
risk in doing so. any
Some try to convince the others that
the authorities are their friends and
would not harm them for the world,
but still they hesitate. After an imaginary
wait of several hours a bold spirit
creeps close up under the walls of the
Jail and comes running back in great
joy.
" It's all right, fellers!" he shouts.
" The mayor has given orders to the
that they are not to hurt us.
guards Our revenge is at hand.' Sdeath!"
They shout hoarsely and again rush
upon the jail. The guards are locked
in the imaginary office and the back
door is not defended. They break it in
with imaginary sledge hammers, and
in a little while the victim is pounced
upon and down the imaginary
steps and out dragged on the street.
Emulating the real mob, they are not
content merely to take him to a tele
graph pole and complete the imaginary
hanging. They pull and haul him
over the sidewalk and street, shouting
merrily the while. It is such fun that
by this time they have forgotten to
fierce. be
Finally the victim is pronounced
dead, and a of paper is set on fire
to give the proper piece realism to the finish.
Then they imagine it is the next day,
and the leaders go around imaginary
street corners telling what part
took in the make believe lynching. they
The game ends with the make be
lieve authorities reposing on a near by
lawn, complaining that they cannot as
certain the names of the lynchers and
languidly announcing that they will
call the attention the grand jury to
the lynching next of year.
