Outrage, Murder and Suicide.
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 29.- The details of a horrible
outrage, muraer and suicide comes from
Nevada, Mo., to- day. It was committed
about eight miles south of Nevada, the vic
tim being Miss Ella Wray, aged twenty- one
years, daughter of a widow, and belonging
to one of the best families in that section.
Yesterday Miss Wray, accompanied by
George Corb, who taught the district school
and boarded with Mrs. Wray, went to the
city. Corb returned last night alone, and in
formed a brother of Miss Wray that the girl
had been dragged from the buggy and murdered
by two unknown men. The body was
found in a clump of bushes near the roadside.
The young woman's throat had been cut
from ear to ear. Corb was placed under
guard, and during the night committed suicide
by taking poison, thus escaping lynch
ing. The coroner's inquest developed the
fact that the girl had been outraged and then
murdered.
Late this afternoon two coroner's juries
returned their verdicts. It was decided that
the girl had been strangled by Corb, and
that he had committed suicide by taking
poison. Opinion is very much divided as to
the girl's death and the motive of the murder,
if it was murder. Those who closely exam
ined the place where the body was found say
there indications of
were many a
severe struggle. It was on a hillside,
where tree had fallen, There
were a number of buckeye bushes growing
there, and leaves had collected among them.
Twigs had been broken from the tree top,
the bushes were broken and bent, and the
leaves and dirt bore evidence of a scufile.
Mrs. Wray, mother of the dead girl, says
that Corb had been visiting her daughter
since last August, but they were not engaged.
She says that the girl was engaged to an
other school teacher, named Homer, who
lives in the neighborhood, and had been so
engaged for two years. Corb was a school
teacher, but has not taught for more than a
year. It is admitted that no outrage was
committed on the girl. Her throat was not
cut, but there were bloody finger prints, as
though she had been strangled.
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 29.- A special from Ne
vada, Mo., says that the return of the deputy
sheriff who was sent to the scene of the
double tragedy throws a new light
on the affair, and shows that, instead
murder. and suicide
, it was a
double suicide. Corb, who was twenty- four
years old, was in love with the girl, who was
from the girl's home eight miles to Nevada.
They started home in a buggy, and Corb 6
reached home of the girl long after the
inmates had the retired. He went to bed in the
from that day to this. The undertaker who
took charge of the body will state that there
was a wound on the body sufficient to have
caused death. We know that representatives
of the river- land company went to Daw
ley a short time before that and offered him
$ 20,000 to drop the fight for the title and
agree to an indemnity bill, and he refused to
consider the proposition."

An Arkansas Negro Lynched.
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Nov. 29.- News is just
received of a lynching in Crittenden county,
Arkansas. Jim Smith, a negro, met the
wife of a white farmer in the road and made
an insulting proposal to her. She fled and
he pursued and was about to overtake her,
when the approach of a horseman frightened
him away. The woman reported what had
occurred and Smith was arrested by a deputy
sheriff. On the way to jail at Marion the
two were met by a mob of white men who
took charge of the prisoner and filled
full of bullets. him
