President McKinley submitted to the
Senate the draft of a treaty of annexation
signed by representatives of the Hawaiian
Islands and by the Secretary of State in
this city June 16, the Senate removed the
seal of secrecy from the documents and in
executive session referred the matter to
the committee on foreign relations; the
treaty provided for the annexation of the
Hawaiian Islands to the United States, the
latter government assuming the public
debt of Hawaii; the promulgation was received
with general expressions of approval
throughout the country; representations
in the nature of a protest were filed
at the State Department by the Japanese
minister to this country and by Mrs. Lydia
Dominis, formerly Queen of Hawaii. The
Senate continued the consideration of the
tariff bill and adopted the revised sugar
schedule agreed upon by republican senators
in caucus. The President nominated
Stewart L. Woodford of New York to be
minister to Spain. Princeton University, at
its annual commencement, conferred the
degree of doctor of laws upon ex- President
Grover Cleveland. The trial of officers and
directors of the American Tobacco Com
pany on a charge of conspiracy was begun
in New York city. Bishops Hogan and
Glennon of Kansas City refused to offer
prayers in Catholic churches for. Queen
Victoria in honor of her jubilee. The International
Printing Pressmen's convention
began in Detroit. Right Rev. Francis Jans
sens, Catholic Archbishop of New Orleans,
died suddenly on the steamer Creole on his
way from New Orieans to New York. The
Lutheran general synod continued its sessions
at Mansfield, Ohio. C. B. Coliins of
Nashville, Tenn., who had been following
the races, was robbed and severely beaten
near St. Louis; he says Martin Ensley,
also a prominent southerner, is guilty of
the crime. A National Anti- Mob and Lynch
Law Association was incorporated at Columbus
, Onio. The National Association of
Railway Postal Clerks began a meeting in
Philadelphia. Several persons died and
aver a hundred were prostrated by the in
tense heat in Chicago. Coroner Hewitt of
Urbana, Ohio, in a verdict as to the deaths
of men who were killed by the militia there
recently found there was no neglect on the
part of the governor, sheriff or mayor in
enforcing the law. Wm. J. Bryan addresed
the literary societies of the University of
Virginia; the attendance was very large.
John M. Francis, the veteran editor of
Troy Times, died. the
