contended. Then, again, it was insisted by
the opponents of the" negro annex" that Georgia
not only has the worst chain gang system
in all the Southern States, but leads all of the
Southern States in the matter of mob and
lynch law. All these evils her ruling people
sanctioned in the past and appear to sanction
now. Upon these very tenable grounds, presented
in an able and persistent manner, the
opponents of the negro annex" rested their
case and were" defeated.
ing to know the real condition of affairs.
In a great many Afro- American newspapers.
I have found discordant notes, but knowing
Bouthern conditions thoroughly, and the natu
ral propensity of some men to kick, and rely
ing upon the promises made by the Exposition
managers, I have not paid much attention to
these discordant notes. Not so, however, with
the startling editorial in the last issue of the
Atlanta People's Adrocate, whose editor, H.
A. Hagler, was thrown into jail and kept there
for a season by the lawful authorities of Atlanta
, some months ago, for reflecting upon the
memory of Jefferson Davis. Mr. Hagler heads
his editorial, The Fakest of All Fakes." In
the course of his editorial he says:
" We have heard of fakes, we have read of
fakes, and we have s en fakes, but the fakest
of all fakes is the Atlanta fake Exposition.
We did not know it, though, until we paid it
A visit. It was worth to us the 50 cents we
threw away to see it. It is a vindication of
all the Adrocate has said azainst it, or may
hereafter say. We said all along that the negro
was used as a cat's- paw. He has been all along,
and he is still. Had it not been for the negro.
the Exposition would not have attained to an
International affair. for Congress would not
have voted the appropriation of$ 200,000 for the
Government exhibit, and given the Exposition
the sanction of the American republic. And
now that the negro has done so much for the
Exposition, what has he got for his pains?
" Fifty cents will admit him to the Exposition
grounds, and then he must strike a bee line for
the Negro building, or he is in danger of being
grossly insulted. However, when he has seen
the negro exhibits he has seen a great part of
the show. But the white man holds full sway
here also, for all the day and night watchmen
are white.
" Several of the buildings on the grounds the
negro dare not enter. He is afraid to go to
any of them, especially if he has a lady, for
he might be told" no niggers allowed in here."
Several of Atlanta's best people have been in
Bulted in that way. They will hardly be in
suited again, for they don't intend spending
another cent on the big fake. They are disgusted
, and rightiy, too, for negroes have not
even a dog's show inside the Exposition gates,
unless it is in the Negro building. The Negro
building itself does not come up to our expectations
, owing to the fact, of course, that it
has an inexperienced man at the head of it.
Prof. Penn is a nice man, but it doesn't take
nice men to make successes of great under
takings. It takes practical business men.
" For fear that a few negroes might get a
crumb of bread, the Exposition contractors
would not hire them, but kept the job as long
as they could for white men. Result: The
buildings are not completed yet, although the
gates have been opened nearly a month.
" Many persons have written asking whether
the Exposition was worth coming to see. We
cannot write all a personal answer, but refer
them to this article. If they wish to feel
that they are inferior to other American citizens
, if they want to pay double fare on the sur
face cars and also be insulted, if they want to
Bee on all sides:" For whites only,' or' No nig
gers and dogs allowed, if they want to be
humiliated and their and womanhood
crushed out, then come." man
