THE PRINCESS
ANNE LYNCHING. SON S550 GOREGGOGO SODD96559 A BOY'S WONDERFUL ESCAPE.
Strong Sentiment Against Mob Law
Forming in the County.
Princess Anne, Md., June 11.- The dis
grace brought upon Somerset county, and
the whole State of Maryland as well, by
the brutal lynching of the negro Andrews,
has caused a reactionary feeling here, and
a number of citizens who at first expressed
approval of the act now condemn it, and
want the ringleaders of the mob punished.
Chief Judge Henry Page has ordered a
thorough investigation to be made, and
it is likely that the governor may offer
a State reward for the apprehension of
the lynching leaders. The governor is
determined to take vigorous action to
stop lynching in this State. State's At
terney Gordon Tull says that he will do
his utmost to collect evidence and lay
it before the jury
Several snap photographs were taken
of the lynchers by photographers and
these will be used as evidence. That the
judge will be able to make the investigation
thorough or that Mr. Tull will be
able to get evidence is by no means clear.
Attorney Tull says he has the name of
a youth of nineteen from the county who
placed the rope about Andrews' neck.
If the names of the men who did the
hanging can be ascertained, their prosecution
will follow, as the testimony of
the doctor before the coroner's
show that the negro died from strangu inquests
tion, and the men who manipulated the
rope are responsible for his death.
The more brutal features of the lynching
of Andrews have not been told.
After the prisoner was knocked sense
less men jumped on his face with their
heavy boots. Men stood around while
boys plunged knives into his body. A
woman standing in her porch, in full
view of the butchery, fainted as a man
backed the negro's body..
Boys were urged to stone him as he
lay on the ground, and they battered
his face with pieces of bricks until their
hands were smeared with blood and they
dashed the gore in one another's face.
The men who were nearest the body looked
like butchers.
As the reaction has set in now the community
is horror- struck and men who
boasted of their part in the butchery are
skulking out of sight or leaving town.
Before the trial a rumor was circulated
that even if convicted Andrews would re
celve executive clemency, or at any rate the
county would be put to great expense be
fore he was finally executed.
Judge Page, who was unceremoniously
handled by the mob, said yesterday:
" I do not know the man who pushed me
out of the way and struck the prisoner, but
Imayrecognize him. I thought I knew every
body in the county, but I did not know one
third of that crowd."
Mrs. Kelly witnessed thelynching and
yesterday that Andrews got his just deserts said.
