ROOSEVELT BITTERLY
DENOUNCES LYNCH LAW
Makes Strong Plea For Equality
Of Justice For Both Races
New York, Nov .. 23. Declaring
that lynch law is a national crime,
whether perpetrated in the North or
the South, former President Rose
velt in the current issue of The Out
look today pleads for equality of
justice for negroes and whites. At
the same time he deplores the slowness
of justice in the belief that this
may be largely responsible for many
of the cases of summany vengeance.
In an editorial headed" Lynching
and the Miscarriage of Justice," Col.
Ocnel Roosevelt exonerates the South
from sole responsibility for this stigma
upon the United States and reluctantly
admits that the lynch spirit
is growing. The crime against wo
manhood, which has inspired so many
lynchings, especially in Southern
States, and especially in cases where
negroes have figured as the assail-
ans, the writer puts even before murder
in the grade of felonies. He ad-
vocates making such crimes capital
and urges that death sentences be
imposed upon all found guilty of
such offences.
The following are some of the
striking exerpts from the editorial:
" The repeated race riots and
lynchings that have occurred in the
United States in the last decade or
so must have convinced the least observant
that neither race feeling nor
the tendency to lynching is in any
sence peculiar to the South.
" Lynch law is in itself a dreadful
thing, but the manifestations that accompany
it when the cause is due to
race hatred are peculiarly horrible.
" When men grow accustomed to
lynch men for one crime, they speedily
begin to lynch them for other
crimes.
" Dreadful though it is for the mob
spirit to be aroused in a community
by such a crime( attacks on women),
it would be even a worse calamity
if the community did not feel the
fury of indignation which produces
the mob spirit. There is no question
whatever that there are serious
breakdowns in the administration
of justice in America, breakdowns
for which we are all more or lessed
responsible- the people as a whole,
the legislatures, the lawyers and the
courts. Slowness in deciding cases
and readiness to admit appeals, legal
technicalities, the irritating delay in
getting the machinery of the law in
motion and the utterly improper attention
paid by the courts to the
sharpness of lawyers in invoking
technicalities all these result in frequent
miscarriages- of justice.
