THE BURNING OF WHITE.
Thousands Visited the Scene of the
Execution at Wilmington.
Wilmington, Del., June 29.- Thou
sands of persons Sunday visited the
place where George F. White, a Ne
gro was burned at the stake by a mob
of 4,000 persons for brutally assault
ing and stabbing to death Miss
Helen S. Bishop, the 17- year- old
daughter of Rev. E. A. Bishop.
They came from all the small
towns in this vicinity and hundreds
journeyed to the execution place from
Chester, Pa., and Philadelphia. A tro!
line runs to about three- quarters
of a mile from the scene and bus drivers
and others owning vehicles did a
thriving business carrying passengers
to the place and explaining to them
the events of the last two weeks. The
burning took place in a freshly ploughed
field, about 50 feet from the road-
way, which is hidden by high brushes.
The field has been trampled almost as
smooth and hard as asphalt by the
thousands who have visited the farm.
The only evidence that remains of
the work of the mob are three cobble
stones, on one of which this inscription
has been placed in indelible ink:
" Here is all that remains of White"
.
The bushes, behind which the mur
der was committed, have been cut
down for a distance of several yards
and carried away by relic hunters.
Many of those who visited the scene
Sunday, among them a large number
of women, carried away a sprig or
branch of the bushes.
Discussion of the events of the last
week is rapidly ending, although the
affair was the text of some clergymen
Sunday. The preachers without exception
condemned the lynching notwithstanding
the fact that public sentiment
is overwhelmingly on the side of the
lynchers. Rev. Robert A. Elwood, the
Presbyterian minister, who has come
In for much criticism for his sermon
of last Sunday night in which he suggested
lynching in case the Negro es
Amcaped speedy punishment at the hands
of the law, did not refer to the lynch
ing or the criticism Sunday. These
criticisms were answered by his congregation
Sunday by resolutions pass-
sustaining their pastor. They say:
" We record our belief that his mes
sage of last Sunday evening was both
timely and true, sensible and scriptural
, and in nowise can the actions of
the citizens
on Monday night be
chargeable to that sermon."
Wilmington, Del., June 29.- Rev.
Montrose W. Thornton, pastor of the
First A. M. E. church of Wilmington.
preached to a large congregation Sun
day night. He said, in part:
" The white man in face of his boast
ed civilization stands before my eyes
to- night the demon of the world's
races, a monster incarnate; and in so
far as the Negro is concerned seems
to give no quarter. The white is a
heathen, a fiend, a monstrosity before
God, and is equal to any act in the
category of crime. I would sooner
trust myself in a den of a hyena than
in his arms.
With a court, law and
officers of law in his hands, the despised
Negro can expect no mercy.
justice or protection. The Negro is
unsafe any where in this country. He
is the open prey at all times of barbarians
who know no restraint and
will not be restrained.
" There is only one part left for the
persecuted Negro when charged with
crime and when innocent. Be a law
unto yourself. You are taught by this
lesson of outrage to save yourself
from torture at the hands of the blood
seeking public. Save your race fron
insult and shame. Be your own sher
iff, court and jury as was the outlaw
Tracy. Die in your tracks, perhaps
drinking the blood of your pursuers.
Booker T. Washington's charity, humanity
, advice of forgiveness, love, in
photostry, and so on, will be reciprocated
by white men." never
