GEORGIA MOB LYNCHES EIGHT.
MASKED MEN TAKE PRISONERS
FROM WATKINSVILLE JAIL.
Tie Them to a Fence and Shoot to Death
All but One- White Man Shares Negroes
' Fate- Gov. Terrell Says It's Too
Late to Take Action in the Case Now.
WATKINSVILLE, Ga., June 29.- A hundred
white men, armed and masked, early this
morning robbed the county jail at this
place of nine prisoners and shot eight of
them to death within two hundred yards of
the center of the town.
Seven of the victims were negroes and
one was a white man. The ninth prisoner
escaped death by dropping as if killed at
the first volley. The mob supposed him
dead and left him wounded upon the ground,
where he was found later by the authorities
and returned to the jail. One negro in the
prison escaped being butchered because the
mob overlooked him. The victims of the
mob were John Aycock, white; Richard
Allen, Lewis Robinson, Richard Robinson,
Sandy Price, Eugene Yerby, Claude Elder
and Bob Harris, negroes. Joe Patterson
was the negro wounded. He will recover
from his injuries.
The cause of the lynohing was the alleged
attempt of Sandy Price, one of the negroes,
to assault Mrs. Weldon Dooley last Tuesday
evening at her home near Watkinsville.
He was shot at several times by the crowd,
which later captured him. There is some
doubt as to the negro's intentions when he
entered the Dooley house. It may only have
been for robbery.
The recent murder of H. L. Holbrook
and his aged wife at their home four miles
from here had something to do with the
violence visited upon the prisoners ,, as
four of them were in jail awaiting trial on
charges of complicity in the Holbrook
tragedy. The white man, Aycock, was
among the number implicated in the kill
ing of the aged couple. Richard Robin
son, Claude Elder and Lewis Robinson
were his alleged companions in the crime.
Richard Allen was under sentence of death
for murder, Sandy Price was charged with
attempted assault, Eugene Yerby Wa8
charged with burglary and Bob Harris
was charged with shooting two negroes.
It was about midnight that the mob
quietly formed. In perfect order they
marched to the jail, where the jailor was
called out and at the point of a number of
guns was forced to surrender his keys.
Thus fortified, the crowd had no trouble to
get inside the prison. Every cell was
opened and the trembling prisoner whieh
each contained was ordered out. The
nine prisoners in single file were marched
to a spot about 200 yards from the jail.
On the way to the place of execution Aycock
veherently protested his innocence and
begged the mob to spare his life. He was
driven forward with the negroes. Most of
the blacks went to their death without a
word.
When the prisoners and their captors
had arrived at a spot which seemed best
suited to the desire of the mob the nine
men were ranged in a row against a fence
and each was bound to a post. Then the
lynchers lined up and discharged a volley.
Shotguns, pistols and rifles were used by
the lynchers, and their work was quickly
done. They dispersed quietly.
An examination by the jailer who had
been forced by the mob to accompany the
party to the scene of the execution showed
that eight of the men had been riddled with
bullets and were dead. The ninth, a negro,
was found to be only slightly wounded.
The post to which he had been bound was
torn and splintered by the bullets. He had
the presence of mind to fall over as if dead.
The rattle of the volley awakened nearly
every one in the vicinity and half clad men
and women hurriedly left their homes to
learn the cause of the firing.
ATLANTA, Ga., June 29.- Regarding the
lynching to- day at Watkinsville, Gov. Terrell
said:
" I cannot too deeply deplore this horrible
affair. The people of Georgia are absolutely
opposed to mob violence and the best
citizens will join me in condemning the
shocking occurrence at Watkinsville. This
affair will be deplored by the entire coun
try and none will be more sorry than the
law abiding citizens of this State. Mobs
do not administer justice. They terrorize
communities and prevent justice from be
ing done. It is of course too late to take
any action in the matter now, as the men
are already dead. If an inkling of this
affair had reached the executive department
in advance vigorous measures would
I have been taken to prevent it. have
