THE LYNCHING OF EPPS.
The People of Greene County Defend Them
selves from the Charge of Mobbing Him,
To the Editor of the Indianapolis Journal:
In your paper of to day you have an account of
the lynching of Holly Epps, the negro murderer,
of Greene county. Editorially you make some
very severe remarks in regard to Greene county
which are entirely unjust, but it is probable you
had no means of knowing the truth in regard to
the matter.
There was not a man from Greene county in
that mob. The only man from Greene county
that was in Vincennes at the time was the prosecuting
attorney of this circuit, and no one pre
tends that he had anything to do with the lynch
ing. On careful inquiry, it is found to be un
questionably true that no man from this county
was in the mob or in any manner connected
with it. No absent from
man was
the neighborhood of the of the
scene
murder. No man was seen on the trains or on
the road going or returning. The means used
in breaking the jail show that it was done by
experts and men well acquainted with the surroundings
. Greene county men could not possibly
have done the work in the manner in which
it was done.
However humiliating it may appear to our best
citizens, yet there is no question but if Epps had
been brought into the immediate vicinity of the
murder a day or two after its occurrence he
would have been lynched, so indignant
were the people on account of the atrocity of his
crime. It was also apparent to our officers on
the day of Epps's arrival in Bloomfield that there
was danger of mob violence, and at once it was
arranged to remove him from the county, after
which everything was quiet. There was never
any Greene county mob at any time in Knox
county. The first mob that was spoken of by
the papers that attempted to enter the Vincennes
jail was evidently got by
up
newspaper correspondents for the
pur
pose of& sensation, and not a
in it this
County.
man was from
It is believed by the best informed men that the
last mob- the one that did the fatal work- was
also got up by newspaper correspondents;
and when the truth is known it will appear that
no Greene county citizen had anything to do
with this outrage upon civilization.
The tenor of your editorial in condemnation
of mob violence is heartily indorsed by the mass
of our citizens. We also feel gratified over
the
manner in which you have complimented our
officers in Saturday's editorial for performing
their duty under the statute
. GREENE COUNTY.
