MET DEATH ON THE RAILS.
An Unknown Negro Killed by a Central
Train at Meldrim.
An unknown negro was killed at Mel
drim night before last by the north- bound
train on the Central railroad. He is sup
posed to have been stealing a ride on the
trucks of the Atlanta sleeper.
The train had just started up, after its
stop at Meldrim, when a piercing shriek
of agony was heard coming from beneath
the train. The conductor heard the cry
and recognized its import and the train
was rung down at once. The train had
just begun to move, and did not go more
than a car length after the cry was heard,
but the work of death had been well
done.
The conductor and trainmen ran back
aud extricated the mangled body of the
negro from beneath the cars. He was
alive when taken out, but lived only a
few moments. The wheels had passed
diagonally across his body, laying it open
from the left shoulder across to the right
hip. His right leg was taken entirely off,
as was also his right hand.
No one knew the negro, and his body
was left at Meldrim for identification.
It is supposed that he was stealing a
ride on the trucks and fell asleep when
the train stopped at Meldrim. When the
train started again he was thrown from
his perch and was awakened by the
crashing of the wheels across his body.
His fearful awakening was of brief
duration and in a few moments he was in
the sleep of death.
Inquiry was made at the train dispatcher's
office, of the Central, last night
could
for information, but none be
obtained.
Busted!
Seven hundred men's, boys' and chil
dren suits from the high grade clothing
manufacturers, Sluss& Valentine, are on
sale at Kohler's, 140 Broughton street, at
sacrifice prices. Also bargains in sanitary
underwear.- ad.
RECEIVER MEYER IN CHARGE.
He Has Filed His Bond and the Brew
ery is Now in His Hands.
Receiver George Meyer, of the P. H.
Wolters Brewing Company, has filed his
bond with the clerk of the superior court
and is now in full charge of the P. H.
Wolters Brewing Company.
Receiver Meyer gave$ 15,000 bond un
der order of the court, with Messrs.
George and John Schwarz, and R. M.
Hicks, and Mrs. Walker as sureties. He
will continue to operate the plant, and
will keep it fully up to the standard of a
first- class brewery.
The plant is in good condition and can
do good work, and there is little doubt
that, under the receivership, it will be
brought out clear, and to the full satisfaction
of all the creditors concerned.
Rheumatism originates in the morbidger
condition of the blood. Hood's Sarsaparilla
cures rheumatism. Get only Hood's
ad..
