Follow Up the Scottsboro
Victory!
THE thunderous demands of the white and Negro toilers resounding
from every corner of the world, stayed the legal massacre of the nine
Scottsboro boys. The hangman's hand has been halted, but it still
hankers for its victims. The Supreme Court decision forced by the
gigantic and powerful revolutionary movement of millions of toilers
throughout the world is a tremendous victory for the entire working class
-Negro and white. But it does not yet mean that the fight for the
unconditional release of the nine Scottsboro boys is over.
The Negro and white masses must be under no illusions. Reliance
on the" fairness and justice" of the Alabama lynch courts will only
help to tighten the hangman's noose around the necks of the innocent
boys- it will not save them. The counter- revolutionary front ex
tending from the imperialist butchers to their servile agents in the
ranks of the Negro and white masses- the socialists and Negro reformists
- are energetically working to stifle the indignation and wrath of the
masses in their attempts to carry through under cover of" justice, rights
and equality" this bloody murder.
The lives of the boys have been temporarily wrested from the clutches
of the lynchers only by the world- wide mass protests of the toilers. The
guarantee for the unconditional release of the Scottsboro boys is not peace
ful waiting and watching. It requires a thousandfold intensification
of the mass movement, reaching out to new nooks, mobilizing new sec
flons of the masses, ever broadening the united front of revolutionary
struggle.
THE Scottsboro case has helped to crystallize in no undecided manner
THE
ferment in the ranks of the Negro masses. The
the revolutionary
Scottsboro case has proved the efficacy, before the eyes of millions, of
revolutionary methods of struggle as against reformist capitulation to
the white ruling class. The deepening discontent and political awaken
ing of the Negro toilers has found expression in mass support for the
Scottsboro boys, as a step forward in the entire struggle for Negro
liberation. The Scottsboro case has welded strong links in the chain
of unity of white and Negro toilers against the whole vicious, barbarous
system of national oppression, of which this brazen frame- up is but a
single expression.
But the work cannot rest here. There is danger of a possible slackening
down in this mass struggle now that the Supreme Court has
rendered its decision. This danger is even greater today than before.
This must be overcome! Decisive measures must be taken NOW, with
out a moment's delay, to utilize this recent victory in the struggle for
the Scottsboro boys, to raise to new heights the mass action for their
complete freedom. We must completely wipe out the tendency to limit
the struggle only to the forces already in and around the International
Labor Defense and the revolutionary mass organizations. New masses
must be drawn into the movement.
This important partial victory in the battle for the complete release
of the Negro lads offers a splendid opportunity through which to penetrate
even the most backward sections of the masses of Negro and white
toilers those masses who have never before been stirred to action. We
must develop in the ranks of the widest sections of the oppressed toilers
the consciousness and determination that they, themselves, on their own
initiative, must widen the base of the movement, in the neighborhoods,
in the factories, in the ranks of the unemployed, in the reformist organizations
. Everywhere to develop such forms of organization as will
rally the broadest sections of the white and Negro masses in working
class solidarity, to defeat the united forces of reaction in their attempts
to murder the boys.
The united front Scottsboro conference in every locality must take
on new life and vitality. Where such conferences have gone out of existence
they should be immediately revived and begin to function not in
a narrow circle- but reaching out to new elements, particularly penetrating
the Negro reformist organizations and A. F. of L. unions. Through
the building up of the Scottsboro Defense Committee in the neighbor
hoods, factories, schools, new adherents can be won for the defense of
the Scottsboro boys.
THE further struggle for the release of the Scottsboro boys must be
concretely linked up with the struggle against the whole system of
mob violence and lynch terror. The workers, and especially the white
workers, must react with more decisiveness and determination to every
act of discrimination, every act of repression of Negro toiler sand connect
this struggle with the Scottsboro case.
Major attention must be given to penetrating the South in the
struggle for the Scottsboro boys. The decision of the Supreme Court
hands the boys back to the same lynchers and slave drivers who condemned
them to death. It is therefore right here, above all, where
the national oppression of the Negro people takes on the sharpest forms,
that the vigilence of the Negro and white toilers must be aroused to pre
vent the perpetration of this lynching. The base exists in the rapidly
developing mass struggles for unemployment relief and against the terror
which makes possible real determined mass action on the part of the
Southern toilers for the release of the boys.
Let the voice of the working class be heard stronger than ever,
the demand: Unconditional freedom for the Scottsboro Boys! with
