prej race that fact the illustrate only to them to
udice and mob law are not sectional evils. The
negroes who are now leaving North Carolina for
Northern States will not find better treatment or
better friends than they have here. They will not
find it easier to get work and they will not find
their rights better safeguarded. Governor Ay
cock told the writer last week that he has found
in his long practice in North Carolina courts
that here the negro actually has the advantage in
a civil suit with a white man- so desirous are our
of guarding the weaker race against any
juries form of oppression by the stronger.
Race Feeling at the North.
This month has brought two rather notable illustrations
of race feeling at the North. Near
Belleville town in the State of Illinois on the 7th
inst. a negro was lynched and his body burnt, and
at Wilmington, Del., last Monday a negro was
burnt alive by an infuriated mob of Northerners.
The Delaware negro's crime was a horrible one;
he had outraged and mortally hurt a young school
, the daughter of a prominent minister. The
girl mob is said to have numbered more than 2,000,
unmistakably preparing were members and its
for their bloody work for hours before the negro
was taken from the jail Monday night. Yet the
authorities took no such steps to protect the negro
as would have been taken in many a Southern
State. Says the Charlotte Observer's correspond
ent:" The State and county authorities took no
action. The Wilmington militia was not ordered
out, though it could have reached the scene after
the mob began to assemble in time to have saved
the negro. Police re- inforcements were not sent
to the prison until after the mob assembled."
The lynching in Illinois- the State over which
the shade of Abraham Lincoln keeps eternal vigil
--was even more shocking and indefensible. The
-superintendent schools in Belleville refused to
renew the certificate of of a negro teacher, and the
shot, color against of because and his fatally
negro, feeling that he had been discriminated
wounded the superintendent. Harper's Weekly
have sent a would Illinois juries that few asserts
negro under such circumstances. But the teacher
white man to the gallows for a crime committed
had been but a few hours in Belleville jail before
it was surrounded by a tumultuous crowd. Over
powering the guards, they brought out the pris
oner, beat him almost to death, hung him to a tel
egraph pele, and then burned his body to a crisp
We submit that there is hardly a place in the
South where such a crime would have called forth
such barbarie punishment.
We hope that no Southern man will think of
these Northern outrages as in any degree palliat
ing or excusing lynch law in the South. We refer
