A MONTANA LYNCHING.
A Totally Unexpected and Highly
Dramatic Denouement.
The Part an Old Man's Rifle Played in the
Execution of a Desperado- He
Wasn't Interfered With.
" Indirectly and unconsciously I
made the noose with which the first
official or what the law of Judge
Lynch called official- hanging
was
done in Helena, Mont., said a member
of the pioneer corps that made the preliminary
survey for the proposed route
of the Northern Pacific
railway
through the Rocky mountains and foot-
hills.
" It was in 1869 and immediately
preceding our advent in Helena the
and bad men,
rustlers
' gamblers,
miners, trappers, and generally dis-
reputable cusses to be found in all
Western towns, held full sway there,
with only a muttered thunder of possible
resentment from those who saw
the necessity of insisting upon law
and order. Fights and disorders of all
kinds were of constant occurrence in
the gambling hell, hurdy- gurdies, and
other similar establishments through
the town, until at last the regulators'
had issued orders to these disturbing
elements of society to leave at once or
be summarily cleaned out. The climax
of the law abiding citizen's patience
was reached about that time through
the holding up of the Fort Benton
stage coach by a band of road agents.
The band was pursued by the Helena
regulators and engaged in a bloody
fight, which continued over a distance
of eight or ten miles. One of
the
regulators was killed during the fight,
and several prominent citizens of
Helena and Gallatin were seriously
wounded. Exactly how disastrous the
engagement had been to the road
agents was never known, but one of
w but one
them, and a notorious one, was captured
. This was big Jim Daily, one
of the most desperate characters in the
region, a former employe on the fa
mous Russell's ranch, known as a ter
ror from South Havitos to Boseman,
and responsible for much of the lawlessness
that prevailed in the community
. He was shot through both
thighs, and, being unable to sit on his
horse, fell into the hands of the
regulators
, although wounded, as he was,
he fought like a fiend to the last, requiring
the united strength of several
men to bind him with a lariat.
" The
1 captured desperado was
brought back to the town, where he
was cinched with his back to a flag-
pole in front of the International Hotel,
the leading hotel at Helena at that
time. Many of his sympathizers and
friends stood around with ugly and
threatening looks and fingers itching
to pull their guns, but the fear inspired
by the regulators and uncertainty
as to how many they might
really number in their ranks kept them
from taking any overt steps toward re
lease. The regulators were led by a
well- known judge, a man who had
stood high in the East, a college graduate
and very wealthy, even for that
country and time. He was a man of
stalwart presence, and of grim, determined
disposition that was not to be
trifled with.
" It was at this moment that our party
of engineers rode up. We were sooned
made acquainted with the situation.
All of the party except myself were
satisfied without detailed explanation,
and, after taking a look at the notorious
captive, attended to their horses
and went into the hotel about their
their business. was the youngest of
the party, being but little more than a
boy, and was full of youthful curiosity.
I had a habit when talking to any one
of knotting my lariat into various complicated
knots, the trick of tying which
I had learned from sailors of the navy,
in whose company I was much thrown
during the war. While I plied the
judge with questions about Jim Daily
and his doings I kept manipulating my
lariat in this way, and, as the judge
seemed to be much interested in the
knot- tying, I probably tied them with
more than my usual skill and facility.
At last I fastened a knot that particularly
interested the judge.
What do you call that?" said he,
interrupting a question I was asking
him.
That's the hangman's noose,' 1 re
plied.
" The judge seemed more interested
than ever and nothing would do but
that I should teach him how to make
the knot right there and then. I never
for a moment thought that the judge
had any particular reason for wanting
to become proficient in tying the hangman's
not and to work to teach
him. After several set lessons and trials
he was able to tie the knot to perfection
and seemed much elated over his
success. The next morning I found out
why the judge had been so anxious to
learn the tying of the hangman's noose,
for when the doomed desperado, still
strong and defiant, was taken from the
fiag- pole at nine o'clock and laid in the
bottom of a wagon to be carried to the
place of execution- for his condition
would not admit of his riding a bronco,
as was the custom- among the articles
that accompanied the crowd of regulators
and Daily's iowering friends was
the lariat on which was that noose that
I had coached the judge in making.
" Nobody had been hanged yet in
Helena and the judge had seen at once
the superiority of the scientific noose
over the rough knot that was usually
tied in the end of a rope on occasions
of this kind by regulators, and he had
concluded that he would give Helena's
first victim in primitive Montana law
the benefit of a proper sending off.
But, after all, Big Jim's death did not
come from the noose. That execution
was unexpectedly and intensely dra
matic in its denouement, Its end was
an act of tragic heroism that would
have been possible nowhere except
among those lawless denizens of the
Rocky Mountains.
" The crowd that followed d the guard
of regulators that excited the condemned
cutlaw to his death was a mot
ley gathering- friends and sympathizers
of Daily, law- abiding citizens
and strangers within their gates.
Among the former was a grim- looking
old man, his long gray hair flowing
from beneath his broad- brimmed hat
and his gray beard sweeping his breast.
His hat was turned up in front, adding
to the picturesqueness of his appear
ance. He rode a scrawny, dejected
looking bronco. Thrown across one
arm he carried a rifle with an unusually
long barrel. Two big Colt's revolvers
showed conspicuously in his belt.
About three miles out on the trail there
was a large scrub- oak tree, with a limb
extending out in such suggestive fash
ion that in passing under it no one appreciating
the frequent requirements
of the region could avoid noting and
commenting on the branch's splendid
possibilities.
" Having arrived there the judge
halted the procession and made a short
explanatory speech to the crowd, and
with due respect for ultra- western law,
asked Jim what he had to say before
the final proceedings. Desperately
wounded, bound, and helpless as he
was, and with death staring him in the
face, there was no sign of weakening
or a trace of fear on Daily's face as he
forced himself to a sitting posture in
the wagon and in a gruff strident
,,
voice hurled the most terrible impre
cations upon the judge and regulators.
He ended his tirade by exclaiming:
I leave you fellars to be looked after
by my friends. and don't you forgit that
they'll do it well and quick, and I give
you all an invite to meet me in h- 1!
Go on with your show!'.
" The judge stepped quickly to the
side of the wagon, slipped the noose
over Daily's head, and gave the other
end of the line a twist around the limb.
The helpless victim was lifted to his
feet and held up on each side by a stalwart
regulator.
" Get up!" said the judge.
" The horses started forward and
dragged the wagon from beneath
Daily's feet. The noose tightened
about his neck, and dangling at the
end of it the desperado spun and quivered
. Not a word or a sound had is-
sued from the crowd, notwithstanding
the fact that over one hundred of the
men there present were friends of
Daily. But the rope had hardly tight-
ened on the outlaw's neck and swung
him from the limbs when the picturesque
old mountaineer, astride his de-
jected bronco, and who had stolidly
watched the proceedings from beneath
the wide brim of his hat, threw his
long rifle to his shoulder as quick as
thought and as Daily's body spun
around face toward him the loud re
port of the weapon rang out among the
hills. The convulsive movements of
the strangling desperado ceased instantly
. The body straighteued out
and hung stiff and pulseless at the end
of the rope. The old marksman was
fully fifty yards from the tree when he
fired, but his bullet had been sent
straight between Daily's eyes, and end-
his misery as one might snuff out a
candle. But the old man's shot had defeated
the ends of Montana justice. With
the very noose about his neck Daily
had actually cheated the gibbet. After
the regulators recovered from their
accord demanded
surprise they of one
of the judge instructions as to how
they should deal with the man who
had so flagrantly violated the rules of
lynch law. It looked as if the old man
had saved Daily from death by strang
ling only to meet that fate himself.
The judge turned to the veteran mountaineer
, who had straightened up in
the saddle, his eyes flashing, his rifle
across his arm and his hands on his
pistols.
" Old man,' said the judge, with
eminous kindness' by what authority
did you commit that deed?"
" By none ez I knows on!" replied
the old man, unflinchingly. But"
( with an oath)" I couldn't set h'yar
an' see a brave man like him die like
a dog! If yer committee objects
what I've done why, I'm h'yar, an'
they kin come an' take me!'
" The old man's style and words
were impressive. There was silence
among the regulators for a moment.
Then a prominent citizen, one of their
number, said:
The old man's right, judge. Let's
go home.'
" And they did go home and quietly.
It may be the regulators let up on
the heroic that old man because they
thought he was right, but the general
impression was that they didn't like
the way he showed them how he could
handle his shooting- irons. Jim Daily's
friends cut his body down and buried
it at what is now Butte City. His
prophecy that they would quickly
avenge his death never came true.
And that was the end of the first official
' hanging in Helena."-
Times. Chiago
