GREEN'S UNEASY GHOST
THE FLITTING SPOOK THAT BROKE
UP AN INDIANA SCHOOL.
A Pretty Good Hoosier Ghost Story- The
Various Ways in which the Spirit
Manifested Itself- How Green Came
to Be Lynched.
A special correspondent of the Chi
cago Inter- Occan writes from Flora,
Ind .. as follows: There is one community
in this State where there is
no dissent on the question as to
whether there are such things as
ghosts. Walnut Grove, a village two
miles west of here, is the place, and
so firm is the faith of the residents
there in spooks that they have forced
the school trustees of the township to
abandon the schoolhouse that for
years has answered for their needs.
and construct another that will be
free from the taint of being haunted.
For some years the story that ghosts
were common visitors in the vicinity
of the Walnut Grove schoolhouse have
been current, but the trustees, who
are hard- headed types of Hoosters,
have always refused to give any credence
to the reports. They have lived
in hope that the stories would be for
gotten, and have done all that was in
their power to cast ridicule upon the
rumors. Their course was dictated by
two motives. In the first place, they
did not believe in ghosts, and in the
second, they had an investment in the
schoolhouse and resented the circulation
of stories that were liable to im
pair its value and usefulness.
From the standpoint the trustees,
this action on their part was all right,
but it did not meet with the approvat
of the parents of the children who had
to attend the school. When Hittle
Johnny Jones and his sister Sue, for
instance, came screaming home to
their mother and told her of seeing a
man swinging by the neck to a tree in
the immediate vicinity of the school
house, and that the hanging man
amused himself by making ugly faces
at them, it became a matter of mo
ment to the parents, especially as lit
tle Johnny and his sister Sue almost
went into spasms when told to go to
school as usual the next day. The
story of Johnny and h's sister had corroboration
from other children who at
teutled the school, and finally the par.
unents began to withdraw their children
from the place and send them to this
city or to some other place to get an
education.
Sometimes the ghost varied his appearance
and instead of hanging from
strolling along
,
the tree, would be seen
the road, his head very much on one
, his tongue hanging out of his
mouth, and an expression of indescribable
agony on his face. The children
said that they would no more than get
a glimpse of him when he would disappear
in the most unaccountable manner
. The ghost would be walking on
the road where there was not an obJect
to afford him concealment, when,
presto! he would be gone.
The children and the parents sald
that it was Amer Green's ghost. The
school trustees said" Addlesticks," but
the parents stuck to their belief and
accentuated it by withdrawing their
children from the school. At the last
term of the school, the one that has
Just closed, there were only two scholars
, and at its termination the teacher
told the trustees that she could not en
dure the life at the scheel for another
term, and raust leave. The trustees
tried to get a teacher to take the
school for the fall term, but its fame
as a ghost- hauated place had become
noised abroad, and the quest of the
trustees was uacuccessful. In view
of this fact, and in deference to the
wishes of the taxpayers the trustees
have awarded the contracts for the
erection of another schoolhouse in lieu
of the old one. It will have another
site, and the hope is that the ghost of
Amer Green will not in future hother
the childrea ad interrupt their education
.
The slim attendance at the school the
last terun, as well as the change of
heart on the part of the trustees, was
largely due to the apparition that appeared
to Dr. Budford Karas of this
city one night last fall. Dr. Karus is
not an emotional mau, and his reputation
for truth and veracity are un
questioned. The doctor
had been
making a professional call in the Wal-
nut Grove neighborhood on the night
of November 30, and had to pass the
vicinity of the schoolhouse on his way
hore. While passing a grove of
trees near the schoolhouse he saw the
body of a man hanging from a limb
and swaying back and forth. When
the doctor told of what he had seen
the next day it settled the matter, and
the fate of the old schoolhouse was
assured.
While there has tot been anything
new discovered to account for the appearance
of the ghost or the unearthly
noises that have terrified the children
at school, there is only one belief on
the subject, and that is that the un
canny objcct is the ghost of Amer
Green. On a walnut tree in the vicinity
of the schoolhouse some years
ago Arier Creen was strung up by
lynci law and his body left hanging
there. In view of the appearance of
the ghost so frequently and its apparent
inability to rest, the community is
now beginning to take some stock in
Amer's dying declaration that he was
innocent of the crice for which he was
lynched, and that he will never rest
in his grave until his innocence is
made plain.
Amer Green was known in the neighborhood
as a" terror" and was a generally
notorious character. He was
an admirer of Luella Mabbit, the
daughter of William Mabbit, a well-
to- do farmer living near Young America
, thirteen miles northeast of here.
Mabbit did not approve of the intimacy
of his daughter with Green, and at
command the girl wrote her admirer his
