THE RELIGION FOR THE NEGRO.
At the concluding day's session of the Catholic
Federation, held in Atlantic City, N. J., this week,
among the resolutions passed was one condemning
mob violence and lynching. So far as it goes, this
is all right. It is an evidence of Catholic obedience
to law and horror of mob barbarity. That is
all the resolution amounts to. We unwillingly con
fess that all the resolutions put up and passed condemning
mob violence have not had the slighest
effect in checking it. Two or three lynchings
happened this week- one minus the siekening hor
ror attached to burning at the stake. Perhaps this
was because the victim was a white man. Two or
three more lynchings likely to occur during
the next week. No dread are of the horror following
capture stops the black villain from violating white
women; no public sentiment, however strong, has
yet persuaded men from organizing into mobs,
breaking open jails and bringing out the despoil
ers of virtue to suffer the most excruciating tor
ture. Something besides resolutions must be invoked
to put an end to anarchy. The law seems
impotent to carry out its purpose, and it will be
impotent so long as human nature revolts at un
natural crime and visits vengeance greater than
the crime. The patience of submission to out
rage, yielding to the courts alone the right of trial
and the infliction of punishment, can only come
through religion. If religion fails, then all is an
archy.
Booker Washington is doing a great work for
his people, but all he can do, or all any other man
of his race might do, will not expel the
bad drop of blood in the negro We
race.
will not all afflicted thus- perhaps
say are
only one in a hundred. But one thing is
significant- the lustful mania has developed, or has
been noticeable, only since the negro's emancipation
from slavery. The old- time darky is the same
innocent creature that lived on the plantation and
served his master with fidelity; the new negro is
the one who makes trouble. Perhaps he is not to
be entirely blamed. A new South has taken the
place of the old. Children of white parents are
found at work in factories now, along with the
children of blacks. The contempt a negro felt for
the white man who worked in the ante- bellum
days, obtains in the present day in his associations
with white laborers. The virtue of the Georgia
" cracker" is not above reproach, and in the social
scale not much above the negro. Altogether the
new South is demoralizing to the black man, naturally
shiftless and indolent. Schools have failed to
make him much better. What he needs is religion,
of the kind that is separated from boisterous exhortation
and calisthenic piety. What he needs is
instruction in Catholic doctrine and morals.
With all his faults, the negro yields respect to
the white because of his superior intelligence and
standing in society. No sensible colored man will
intrude where his presence is objectionable.
the the same time he is grateful if one tells him his At
soul before God is just as precious as that of the
white man. It is the Catholic priest who can do
this better than the minister of any other faith,
and it is the Catholic church of all others in
the South where the spectacle is presented of both
races kneeling at the same communion railing.
What a field is thus presented for the reclamation
of a race! What an opportunity to stem the
tide of anarchy and mob violence through the teach
ings of our faith among a people steeped in
ance and immorality! ignor
