PAINFUL EXCITEMENT.
A deep and painful feeling of excite.
ment pervaded the entire community
Monday, after the sentence of imprison
ment had been passed. Knots of men
were to be seen standing about the
corners and on the courthouse green discussing
the outlook, but so sure were the
officers that the law would be allowed to
take its course that Sheriff Torner had
let his family remain at home and were
occupying the residence part of the jail
building. The family were of course
very much alarmed by the invasion of
the premises, but no one was hurt or
the
seriously interfered with except
officers and they were not more roughly
,
handled than necessary to secure the
keys and to keep them back while the
mob secured the prisoner. The lynching
was evidently the work of men whose
minds had been made to do deed
up the.
ASBURY GRELN'S FATE
Dragged by the Neck and Hung on a Feach
Tree. A Mob's Violence in Centreville,
CENTREVILLE, MD., 12- Asbury Green
colored, sentenced Monday by Judge
Stump, of Queen Anne's Circuit Court,
to twenty- one years in the penitentiary
for a felonious assault on Mrs. Howard
Tolson, of Kent Island, February 28,
was taken from Centreville jail by a
body of masked men shortly after 1
o'clock this morning and hanged on a
bearing peach tree It had been threat-
.
disened before sentence was passed that in
case the penalty was anything less than
hanging the mob would interpose, but
after the conservative and judicious
course of Judge Stump in imposing a
lengthy term of imprisonment it was
thought that all disposition to violence
had been removed. The sentence of the
court was apparently acquiesced in, and
no alarm was created or apprehension
exeited. It was, therefore, a surprise
when it was realized that a body of fifty
or sixty men. some them armed with
all them masked and
of complete
guns.
,
ly disguised, should take the law into
their own hands and override the decis
ion of the sworn administrators of the
law. The mob overpowered the jail
officers, took the keys from them, open-
ed the prison doors, and dragged the
prisoner from his cell to the place where
he was hanged, though he must have
been chocked to beath by the rope
around his neck dragging him on the
ground before the tree was reached.
AN EXTRA GUARD.
As a matter of common prudence the
sheriff of the county, T. Bedford Turner
bad summoned six special deputies to
assist him in insuring the safety of the
prisoner. These deputies were Joseph
V. Coursey, Joseph Simonds, Geo. Rem
mer, Elias Yeates, John Seward. Deputy
Sheriff T. Frank Sward was also on
duty.
WELL ORGANIZED LYNCHERS.
The lynchers seemed to have been
well organized, and well directed on a
systematic plan mapped out in advance.
They apparently approached the jail from
the direction of the wharf, marching in
orderly fashion to the prison, the outer
door of which opening into the hall was
open, and a light burning in the office,
where the deputies were talking. Noth
ing was said, but the exclama io" The
keys, the keys!" The deputies resisted
to the best of their ability. Deputy
Sheriff T. Frank Seward made a strong
effort to keep the mob back but several
,
of them just caught him bodily and pinned
him to the floor and took the keys
from his pocket He was then forced
.
back to the end of the hall with guns
pointed in his face.
THE PRISON INTERIOR.
Sheriff Turner coming down stairs,
was confronted by a rifle and shot gun.
He was told to come no further on pain
of death, and he had to go back. The
mob then opened the doors leading to
the cell where the prisoner Asbury Green
was confined.
The prison cells are on the right on
entering from the door fronting east.
The first room is the sheriff's office, and J.
to the right of this, in the north end of
the building, are four cells two on each
side of a narrow passage. Geen was in
the first cell, an iron bound one on the
east side. A large door had to be un
locked in order to get into the passage
where the cells were situated. It was a
difficult lock to open. A number of the
lynchers crowded into the passage.
When Green's door was reached, it was
but a moment's work to open it with the
keys.
DRAGGED TO DEATH.
The prisoner was dragged from his
cell by a rope around his neck- literally
dragged though office and hall, porch
and gate, out to the street corner, where
some of the lynchers mounted horses,
which seemed to be in readiness. The
crowd then hurried down in the direction
of the wharf. Green seemed to
know his fate at once, and during the
temporary halt begged piteously, but it
availed nothing. When he was first
taken from his cell he had also begged
for mercy, but no attention was paid to
the appeal. Outside the jail he was
hurried down the street known as Broad
way in the direction of the wharf. Several
pistols or guns were fired as the crowd
passed down. There was but little talk
ing or swearing but some yelling on the
way. The prisoner was dragged by the
rope around his neck about 628 yards
down Broadway. Then a turn WAS
made into the peach orchar 1 of ex Sheriff
R. Hooper Smith. About twenty- four
strides from the turning in point the rope
was thrown over the limb of a peach
tree and the body was drawn up, leaving
the victim's feet about eight inches from
the ground. The corpse was seen at day.
light. The trail of the body dragged
along the route was plainly shown on the
ground all the way from the jail. The
body had been evidently rushed in a
hurry, as it had slewed from one side
to another, leaving the trail well defined.
The night was dark and cloudy, with a
These
little rain and some lighting.
conditions were extremely favorable for
accomplishing the work.
AWAKENED FROM SLEEP.
The prison offlcers were overpowered
so quickly and the masks and disguises
were so complete that no recognitions
were made. When Green was reached
in his cell he was asleep. He had no
clothing on but under shirt and drawers.
These were pretty well dragged from
him by the time he got to the peach tree
perhaps, indeed, life was extinct before
he reached that destination. The rope
used was an ordinary hemp rope of three
strands and about eight feet long. The
cord was thrown over a limb and carried
down and tied to the body of the tree. In
a few minutes the crowd had dispersed
and no one was to be heard about.
The
deputy sheriff, in company with The
correspondent, were the first to
reach Sun's the body after daylight.
