By MARY DALTON
( Negro and white workers were united in the
struggle for Negro rights and against lynching
and special oppression by the convention of the
League of Struggle for Negro Rights held recently
in St. Louis, Mo. White and Negro delegates
militantly expressed themselves from the
floor. The following speech was made by Mary
Dalton, one of the six Atlanta defendants facing
electrocution for calling a meeting of Negro and
white workers in Atlanta, Ga.-Ed. Note)
Comrades: This is a historic conference for the
ANLC, in that we have delegates from the
major cities of the North and South. We have
delegates coming from the heart of the Black
Belt. It is a victory for the League of Struggle
for Negro Rights that we have brought delegates
from the worst lynching state of the Union
Georgia- where six of our organizers are facing
trial for life for daring to hold a meeting of
white and Negro workers. This vicious sentence
of death must be smashed by the white and
Negro workers of the North and South. Why is
it that they should have this vicious sentence?
This charge of death to our six organizers is
being utilized by the white landlord class in
order to break down the Revolutionary Move
ment. The growth of the Revolutionary Move
ment means the break down of white supremacy.
To bring the white and Negro workers together
means the breaking down of capitalism. In the
South we have the bulwark of this white supremacy
, lynchings etc., but we can look forward
to gigantic struggles. The bosses know that by
building a strong movement of the workers, the
rule of the whites is broken. In order to check
the advance of the revolutionary movement, they
say that death can be the only sentence given
to any labor revolutionary organization that
dares to put its foot in the foothole of reaction.
Tottering of Imperialism.
Why is this necessary? Because the crisis in
which American Imperialism finds itself is even
a sharper form in the South. Thousands are
walking the street without jobs all over the
country, but it is in a much sharper form in the
South. But in the South with the low living
conditions and low wages, the result is today
unemployed workers not only face viction and
starvation of their family, but we find its coun
ter- part in the drouth- stricken areas.
The Department of Agriculture in Alabama
claims that there are 26,000 Negro tenant farmers
facing starvation, and with their families, a
total of 100,000 facing starvation. This is the
figure of the Department of Agriculture. We
know capitalist figures. We know that their
unemployed 100,000 means at least 200,000 or
300.000 are in a state of starvation. In Tennesee
thousands of farmers are facing ruin and are
being thrown into the cities, where there is no
employment.
Negro and White Workers Uniting
What is the result? Do they sit back and take
this starvation gently? The result is, these conditions
are bringing Negro and white farmers
together. We find them in some places taking
crops. In West Point, Georgia. these farmers by
themselves, break into the capitalists' warehouses
and take what they need. But this is no accident
. Agricultural laborers in Tennessee and
other points went out in strikes because they are
receiving 50c per day for cotton picking. Many
comrades come there, and are warned stay
away. Even though they know of the lynching to
