LYNCHERS THE PROSECUTING
Five of the nine men who were arrested and charged with participating
in the lynching of the colored man, Jack Walker, in Coatesville, Pa., when
the victim was dragged from a hospital and burned alive, because he had
shot and killed a special policeman, have been tried and acquitted.
The evidence against them was clear, direct and strong, and included a
partial confession of one of the prisoners and the testimony of another who
turned states evidence, yet the sentiment of the community, reflected by
the jury, was so strongly in favor of excusing the crime, that verdicts of
acquittal came as promptly and as rapidly as the cases were submitted to
the several juries. The assistant states attorney general, who assisted in
the prosecutions, has become so disgusted with the miscarriage of justice,
that he has issued a statement denouncing the citizens of Coatesville and
attitude and conduct in the whole er,
the surrounding country for their
saying that they prefer lynch law to the orderly course of justice, and that
they no longer have room to criticise the most unlawful community in the
South.
The outcome of these trials is just about what we expected it to be.
In fact, we hardly believed there would be any trials. But the state officials
of Pennsylvania felt the sting of public criticism and forced the ar
rests and trials, and we now see how such things turn out in a big Republican
state and a strong Republican city and county. Race hatred, carried to the
stressful defiance of law and order, is not the ignoble trait of any certain
political division of white people. It is just one common and inherent
characteristic of the white man's baser nature, regardless of his political,
civil or religious training. What he does one place he will do at any other
place, under similar inducements and with like opportunities. What white
men's newspapers describe as" mob frenzy,"" rage" and" uncontrolable pas
sion," are merely masks for a spirit of race hatred more cowardly and despicable
than the looting of the corpses of horror victims by ghouls, which
is another special form of expression of the degree of civilization which their
ordinary classes have attained. The more helpless their victim the more
" frenzied" the mob and the greater its delight. And after the spree of
hate indulged in by a reckless thousand, the" conspiracy of silence," once
described by President Roosevelt, puts Brownsville so far in the shade as to
just men deny that there are greater savages than those of Okemah,
make Oklahoma, and Coatesville, Pennsylvania.
